three two one boom and we're live hello
Godfather how are you sir
good to see you buddy you too thank you
for having me again my pleasure
what's up what's up with you well before
we start I'm doing well people ask me
how do you define wealth you define
wealth when you're young daughter before
you step on the Joe Rogan platform
writes this to you she wrote I love you
that's very cute
that's wealth I'm a billionaire yeah
it's valuable wouldn't say it's wealth I
think we're not being accurate with your
words by the way I will probably keep
this forever board you should yeah
definitely don't put in your pocket what
if you sweat on it yeah so we were
talking right before the podcast started
about what I was just talking about in
the previous podcast about patreon and
what patreon has done 2d platformer
sargon of akkad and what I think we both
agree was sloppy use of language on his
part but he well I don't believe he was
saying something racist he was using a
racist word though it was using it to
describe someone he was actually using
it against white nationalists and
against white supremacist and saying how
ridiculous they were being and that they
were being exactly what they described
and when they're using racist terms to
describe black people but he did it
using those terms and it it wasn't a
good speech like what he said and one of
the things that I'd said on the previous
podcast is when you do podcast you're
not mapping out what you're going to say
you're free flowing sometimes words come
out clunky and and I think that was with
what was going on in the case with him
in this particular conversation that he
had there wasn't even on his page and
patreon decided to ban him and I think
for him that was something to tune of
like twelve thousand dollars or more a
month yeah so quite a bit of his income
you know a lot of us then suggested that
people move to subscribe star which was
a another platform that came out of
nowhere
and they've now been shut down how'd
they get shut down I don't know the
details so I hope I'm not miss speaking
but I think PayPal and stripe decided
that somehow they're violating you know
their terms of their Terms of Service
for whatever reason and apparently any
payouts that have gone out are safe but
you it won't happen through PayPal or
through stripe so you have to find some
alternate platform I think Payoneer or
something yeah so it's getting difficult
to to even receive the generous
donations from people so a lot of people
that are doing podcasts and doing these
YouTube shows they operate on donations
which is a really fair way to do things
because your if say if you have a
subscription-based service and you are
asking people like say for Sirius
satellite radio or something like that
you might not be happy with the content
and you might you might choose to cancel
your subscription but these people can
get what they get already for free right
they choose to donate because they think
it's valuable to them which is really
interesting I like that that format that
model because for the longest time
people are trying to figure out how
could you make money off the internet
well the idea was advertising revenue
and sam harris has a lengthy rant it's
very accurate about this that he puts on
his podcast
often it's like a seven minute rant
explaining why he doesn't use ads and
why he prefers to have people just
donate what they were like and he was
one of the biggest patreon people he was
one of the biggest accounts on patreon
he pulled his patreon two days ago right
and you know that was a huge statement
because to him that is incredibly
valuable I'm really curious to know what
jack conte the founder of the of patreon
what his ultimate trajectory is going to
be as someone who would teach his
psychology decision-making who studies
decision-making
who's housed in a business school I'm I
think it would be a wonderful case
analysis down the road
probably Harvard will teach it of
whether he just doubles down which it
seems like this is what they're doing
cuz they released a statement that
didn't seem to suggest that there was
any sort of possibility of reflection on
their part do you have a sense of
whether the the market will allow him to
sort of realign his thinking or do you
think he's just going to double down all
the way to hell I think he's gonna
weather the storm if I'm gonna be
completely honest not what I would like
what I would like is for them to support
free speech and for them to make a
differentiation between what is actual
hate speech and what is a clunky use of
language which is what I think Sargon
did right it was a clunky use of
language and I think Sargon is a very
intelligent guy I've had him on the
podcast I've talked to him he's very
bright and he had on this show settled
it makes great point yeah he's a very
smart guy when he was on it's just well
he's on someone else's show doing that
you know I felt like and this is one of
the things I said in the last podcast I
feel like if people decide that what he
did was offensive to them to the point
where they decided to not renew their
subscriptions or not continue to send
him money through patreon that's
probably the best use of that format and
the best way for them and the market to
decide that's really I think how it
should be done incidentally regarding
the N word and I'm sure Jamie will now
double check what I'm saying as he
always does
there was a Dean at some University I
think out maybe in Seattle I could be
wrong that at some point had suggested
someone had asked which book a student
asked which book should I read or I kind
of the exact story and I think the title
of the book was the n-word and she had I
think the Dean was a was a woman right
if I'm not mistaken had simply
recommended that book but she said the
word outloud said that and she he or she
I can remember again the person's sex
got into trouble so you know I wonder if
we shouldn't just sort of demystify this
word I mean if if if people weren't so I
mean we have to now say the
n-word right we have to say the r-word I
got banned from Twitter for 12 hours
because at one point I was interacting
with some schmuck who I called retarded
degenerate fuck whatever it was I came
up with the exact combination of insults
and I was banned for using the r-word
hmm so I mean where does this end I mean
what how many more words do we have to
remove from the lexicon I mean don't
give these words so much power don't
don't be so sensitive I mean I know
we've talked about these kinds of issues
in the past
but does it not seem too outrageous that
someone who recommends a book with the
title being the n-word gets into trouble
and it's insane well there's even better
one Netflix there was an executive at
Netflix that was forced to resign due to
my friend Tom Segura's comedy special
and my friend Tom Segura has a bit in
his act about how there's certain words
that are just gone you can't use anymore
and he says retard he's like that word
you can't use that word anymore and he
goes on it's not about using that word
he what he's basically he's not like
he's not justifying the use of the word
he's just simply stating that this is a
word that you could no longer use so
they get attacked a bunch of
letter-writing campaign from mental
health organizations and you know people
dealing with people that have
disabilities and they're saying that
your your being able list and you're
being discriminatory and all these
different things and they're basically
trying to silence him even though if you
look at the actual bid itself he's not
using it to describe a person he's just
essentially acknowledging that the word
exists so this guy who's an executive at
netflix says in a meeting you can't use
that word because that word it's like
saying nigger around black people just
says that you're gonna get in trouble
now no I said it in the earlier show -
I'm just saying when I read sargon of
our cards thing like I said it's
preposterous to say the n-word and I've
said the n-word before and in most cases
I will
but he actually said the word and the
reason why he said the word the reason
why I just said the word is because he
was trying to demonstrate like that this
is an offensive thing like saying retard
is just like saying that he gets fired
for that for simply making this
comparison that you know and we're
talking about uncensored stand-up comedy
by the way this is a network that
features that word prominently on
several different comedy specials in
multiple situations whether it's Katt
Williams multiple uses of the word Dave
Chappelle I mean that word gets thrown
about like a beach ball at a fucking
concert that word gets tossed around a
lot but this guy's saying it because
he's white like 'i enough of your work
here sir
speaking of comedy and sort of political
correctness with comedy and in my
forthcoming book i have a section where
I talk about professors who got into
trouble I mean we've all heard about the
comedian's getting into trouble for
violating some politically correct
victim but professors many cases very
very high-profile professors getting in
trouble for incredibly innocuous jokes
and actually I brought a list of names
because I thought I might not remember
them can I mention if you saw a few the
cases so Lazar Greenfield who was the
president-elect of the American College
of Surgeons and the editor in chief of a
journal called
surgery news had written an editorial a
few years ago where he was talking about
the antidepressant benefits of coming in
contact with sperm in other words it and
this was based on a peer-reviewed
scientific paper actually two of the
authors of that paper are folks that I
know quite well friends of mine and they
had demonstrated that women who have
protected sex versus unprotected sex end
up scoring differently on these
depressive measures in other words there
was some sort of protective element to
actually being exposed to sperm and so
in his editorial he made a joke it was
during
Tynes he said so now there is a gift
that a man can give a woman that's
beyond flowers or chocolates or
something to that effect he had to step
down from being president of the
American College of Surgeons he had to
step down from being editor-in-chief
because a whole bunch of women were very
offended by that sperm joke now the the
the authors of the paper in question
wrote a brilliant response response
where they said how how could he be
treated in this way when all he was
doing is actually literally reporting
the data the findings from our
peer-reviewed study so that's one
example another example is certain
I think it's third Tim Hunt who was a
Nobel Prize winner in 2001 right who he
basically he was a speaking at yet in
Korea at a you know women in science
conference where he very in a jocular
way said you know it's a real problem
when you have women in your lab they
fall in love with you you fall in love
with them and so it's better to have
segregated labs his wife by the way is a
staunch feminist who was a very
prominent scientist and she confirmed
that he's hardly you know a rabid sexist
he went through all sorts of hell yeah I
remember that and he was joking and he
was joking and and and I and in the book
I discussed several other the other of
these examples so so imagine you would
think that a unblemished exemplary
career as a scientist up to getting a
Nobel Prize could potentially protect
you but one comment that someone decides
can can unleash the tsunami of outrage
and you're dead well I think the problem
is reacting to the people that are
reacting to the common right it's not
the common itself it's the cowards that
are running things that give in to that
and the Netflix thing is particularly
disturbing because it was internal it
was people that were working in this
department that apparently went and
protested and they just decided that his
use was egregious and he shouldn't be
able to say those sounds with his face
yeah see I I get a lot of letters from
people asking me well you know I'm
facing this in my situation what should
I do
professors out I
my answer is fight back hard so I've had
a couple of these situations I had a guy
on Twitter the guy at the guy whom I
referred to as a retard started started
contacting my University trying to get
me fired when when it wasn't working
with his tagging my University on
Twitter he actually contacted the HR
department human resources department at
my university this is a random person
it's a troll you got in touch with the
troll and you gave him what he wanted
attention and then he started to run
with it you basically gave him an
opportunity to score he's playing a
video game
exactly but now here's what happened the
the university's HR person contacts me
after hours I mentioned this actually
recently on the Rubin report the the the
the lady in question contacts me to say
look here's a complaint that's been
filed against you now my first react
instinct was Oh someone in my job as a
professor at the university has
complained about me which I couldn't
think who that would be but I would
think that that's where the the template
of their influence over me would reside
no they had actually taken seriously a
random person on Twitter contacting them
and filing a complaint under the guise
of he's a student well he's not my
student right I mean if a student costs
me in an alley to mug me
I can't fight back because bruh he's a
student or I'm allowed to to deck him
right so this is a guy that I'm just
having fun with I mean I'm doing it with
a smile we're going back and forth
decides that he's willing to go as far
as try to get me fired now that's
suppose that he had succeeded let's
suppose that I hadn't fought back
because basically what I did with the
University I said are you literally
thinking that it is reasonable for you
to be monitoring what I do on my Twitter
account and the example I gave her as an
analogy I said if if I see you coming
out of the pharmacy with your daughter
and I feel that you're speaking to her
in a curt manner that I don't agree with
as a parent can I report you to the
University and that pretty much ended
the conversation very quickly but the
fact that they felt sufficiently in
Boldin to actually reach out to me to
address this complaint shows you how
chilling the environment is
it is right but let's play devil's
advocate sure if I was someone who was
taking your class or if I was someone
who is very sensitive or someone who has
certain ideals or morals and the
professor who's teaching in the class
that I take called somebody a retard I
would I mean just being honest and I
love you they that I would I would say
why is this guy doing that like that's a
stupid thing to do like why are you
engaging with these people online and
these right these base insults like that
just tasteful insults fair enough
why engage with people like that I mean
literally the reason I do it is once in
a while my wife falls asleep I don't
feel like working on my scientific
papers or my book crime or whatever I'm
tired and I'm on Twitter and I hated
your advice to try to not engage with
people some idiot catches might oh gee I
use the word idiot strangers okay okay
so so someone someone or word catches my
attention and I decide to spar with them
you you like to get into the Octagon and
do MMA sparring I go on Twitter and I
have fun with some idiot right but and I
just enjoy it and usually we both laugh
it off and we move on it's just part of
my personality right I'm a fun guy
I could be deadly serious and very
academic and scientific and as you've
correctly pointed in the past I could
not take myself seriously and be just
one of the guys so this is a
manifestation of that now that this
person felt sufficiently embolden and
his indignation that he would try to
fire me that's where you should be
focusing on is sort of I don't think
that's real I don't think he really felt
so emboldened I think what it was is he
recognized that there's a climate today
where a person like yourself who's a
professor who uses a certain word that
is deemed to be offensive by society
that he can call you on that word and
get you caught right you got caught up
in a net of your own doing sir well I'm
still here smiling and lifting sounds so
that's okay do you do look down
do you regret using that word that more
than anything
I would
bread that I ever get sucked into these
baths yeah that's that's it's as much
more because again it's a slippery slope
today it's retard tomorrow it's more on
the next day it's schmuck yeah well that
is true in terms of like where people
don't understand calling someone a
retard like say if you're a thirty year
old person today or twenty-five year old
person let's try 25 you realize that
that is a forbidden taboo war when you
and I were 25 that word was nothing
right that word you would get called it
by your teacher right I mean it's true
man that was anyway and it was known to
be someone who was retarding your growth
or retarding the class or saying things
that were retarding development of ideas
and and logic moving forward you're
you're you're a road block you're a pile
of rocks in the road right you fucking
retard that's how people talked about it
like that's how they said it but then
it's become a new word that's victim to
this war on words if you're not saying
you have down syndrome right what you're
saying is you're a dumb person you know
and that terminology like especially the
word retarded it is not even used
medically right so it's it's not a word
and the to say that there's no nuance
and this word cannot be used again about
a really stupid fucking person crying
you know I as you know you probably know
because I've sent you some clips of my
infinite soccer skills I used to be a
very serious soccer player yeah now if
you you know this as someone who moves
into MMA there's a lot of trash-talking
right so that the amount of now I
understand now I'm a professor and so on
but the amount of trash-talking that I
both dished out and was the recipient of
actually allowed me to be a better
person today it's a form of
antifragility right I mean by yeah so so
when you create a sanitized environment
you're creating a fragile system you're
creating fragile human beings so if if
the if the worst stain in my 54 years on
earth is that I use the word retard on
this purse
and I'm doing pretty well well I'm sure
it's not the worst day but yeah it's not
that big it's not that big a deal the
only reason why it's a big deal is cuz
the climate right you know what you're
saying is this is a stupid person you're
not accusing him of having you're not
mocking a mental disease or a disorder
genetic disorder it's not what you're
saying and everybody knows that but they
just decided that this is a new word
that is now taboo a new sound you can't
make with your face
ya want to move on to other sure so
first I wanted to say that I was very
excited last year it's completely
different this is a very hard Segway
with last year one of my former
professors at Cornell won the Nobel
Prize in Economics that's pretty
powerful yeah yeah at the first semester
at Cornell I took his course his name is
Richard Thaler
maybe you should continue inviting him
here I don't know if he does a lot of
these podcasts but he should do your
podcast he won the Nobel Prize for
really the the area that I started off
in before I you know developed all the
evolutionary stuff that I'm most known
for I came out of a tradition called
behavioral decision theory is that was
that ring a bell at all of you do you
know what that is at all not totally No
so classical economists have this if you
like stylized Homo economicus this
vision of how someone who is rational
ought to behave and there are these
axioms of rational choice so for example
if I prefer car a to car B and I prefer
car B to car C I must prefer car a to
car see that's it that's called the
transitivity action someone who doesn't
abide by this is behaving irrationally
if I tell you what do you think of this
hamburger that has ninety percent fat
free it's the same thing as telling you
that this hamburger has ten percent fat
those are two isomorphic statements it
shouldn't alter your preference yet we
see repeatedly that people don't behave
in the manners prescribed by classical
economic theory by homework analogous
solar is the gentleman who demonstrated
how many of these actions of rational
choice are violated in behavioral
finance and for that he won the No
and economics and he came after the ones
who originally wanted in 2002 Daniel
Kahneman you probably know his book
Thinking Fast and Slow Zyra novella
yes right so Daniel Kahneman and his
collaborator Amos Tversky were the
pioneers of that field and that's really
the tradition that I came out of my
doctoral supervisor was part of that
gang of guys who spent their careers
demonstrating that classical economists
are wrong in my case I became frustrated
with that whole paradigm because it
became clear that yes economists have it
wrong how many more demonstrations can
we show that they are wrong I was much
more interested in knowing why the brain
is structured the way that it is and
hence that's how I got into evolutionary
theory but I just thought that I would
give him a shout out since he was a
former professor of mine that's pretty
awesome
I'm just happy there's people out there
trying to figure these things out yeah
so I can read what they say and repeat
it I know what I'm talking about I want
to go back to targeted things being
fragile and anti fragile I mean I think
that's a really important point to
develop and I don't mean develop thick
skin like become accustomed to racism or
sexism or homophobia or rudeness it's
just I'm not saying that we should just
tolerate those things and we shouldn't
seek to improve our culture we
definitely should but as a human being
this celebration of all things
triggering this getting upset at every
single thing that comes your way and
making it out to be some massive
complication I think it's a direct
result of how easy society is and how
simple our lives are and I mean
complicated in intellectual ways
complicated in emotional ways
complicated in psychological ways to
think a lot of the way people live their
life is very unnatural but simple in
terms of not worrying about predators
not worrying about real violence not
worrying about real strife never
worrying about food I mean it's very
rare that people in this culture in this
day and age are starving right you know
it's which is what a huge problem for
most of human civilization most of human
civilization people had a
to find food now for the most part it's
very rare right and I think all these
things have led us to seek enemies where
there are none and to go out and find
these problems that really are not that
big and make them out to be huge right
because they're fragile I mean you know
this the idea that let's one of the the
reasons why I like that expression
snowflake like some some people get
really upset if you throw that word snow
the idea is that every snowflake is
unique and special right right that's
the idea and that you you are unique and
special maybe maybe you're just lazy
that's true too you know this is this is
maybe you're an artwork yes I couldn't
say that either
I could link what I just mentioned about
classical economists to the social
justice warrior ethos so classical
economists viewed the human condition
through very cold calculational calculus
you certainly like humans are these they
they instantiate these algorithms
without any emotions right if I prefer
call a tow car be a car beater car seat
I much prefer car to car see it's all
axioms of rational choice there are no
emotions in these models at the other
end of that continuum lies the social
justice warrior because all of life is
through only the triggering of the
emotional system there is no engagement
with your cognitive resources it's all
about outrage
anger frustration and so in a sense
they're antithetical to each other the
classical economists in his worldview
there are no emotions the social justice
warrior in his world view there is no
cognition of course the the right way to
be is somewhere in the middle the right
way to be is to know when to engage your
cognition and when to engage your
emotions yeah it's not the issue right
is that there's always the middle and
that things are rarely black and white
or one and zero are often very
complicated
well Aristotle going back to Aristotle
had argued about sort of what we now
with color I would call the inverted
u-shape so for example if more
things the middle is the right place to
be all things in moderation right if you
have too little of something it's not
good if you have too much of something
it's not good somewhere in the middle is
where the right virtue is and Aristotle
had thought of that several thousand
years ago I'll give you a specific
example I'm I'm not sure if I've
mentioned that before in this podcast
perfectionism right follows an inverted
u-shape if you have too little of it
you're not sufficiently detail-oriented
your work suffers if you have too much
of it which I'm happy not happy I'm this
place to report is me then it could be
stunting because I check my work seventy
three thousand times before I sent it
off because God forbid I might have a
comma wrong that so there is some happy
medium of perfect on the perfectionism
scale where we should all strive to be
well Aristotle said that for most traits
that's where the optimal is that's where
the inflection point is hmm that makes
sense I mean I'm not one argue against
Aristotle I thought you would say you're
not one side against me but YouTube I'm
not one to argue against either one of
you I just think most issues that people
are arguing for or against one of the
real problems is that they are married
to their initial point yeah and they
argue that looking for a victory they're
trying to move a ball across the line
and they do it by any means necessary
right including by mislabeling people by
mischaracterizing your positions on
things and and categorizing you and some
really easy to dismiss place like you
are all right or you're right you know
you're a fringe right person or I mean
how many people have been called a Nazi
over the last couple of years you've
been called a Nazi so when I was
supposed to speak in August 2017 at a
event titled the stifling of free speech
on University campuses it was on a
university campus it was shut down the
irony was larious it was with myself
Jordan Peterson another clinical
psychologist or an Hamid
and faith called a journalist anyways
and then we held the event about three
months later but the people who shut us
down had put out a Facebook page where
they said we don't want these white
supremacists Nazis in Toronto this is to
a Jewish person who escaped persecution
in Lebanon
so yeah that's it's insane it's cute
it's cute it is I mean they can't they
can't be honest you know I mean this is
not they don't honestly believe what
they're saying but they don't care
because they're just trying to move that
ball right and the fact that that's
tolerated and that not just tolerated
but it actually influenced your speech
and you guys weren't allowed to put on
that event I mean with shame shame on
the University for giving in you shame
on them for not putting their foot down
shame on them for not examining who you
are who Jordan is who any of those
people are yeah and realize you know
you're lying you you are a problem you
calling these people white supremacist
and Nazis you're a problem and you're a
liar and you're defaming these / this is
defamation this is your libel this is
terrible what you're doing is something
that we should shun but I think it
speaks to what you said earlier when you
said it's all about winning getting the
ball of process.i and that's another
thing that I talk about in the book is
the difference between the aunt
illogical ethics and consequentialist
ethics the ontology collects is where
you have moral absolutes it is always
wrong to lie that would be the
intelligible statement the
consequentialist bent would be well it
depends on what the consequences of the
lie is if it were to spare someone's
feelings then it might have been okay to
lie right yeah and so I argue that a lot
the problem with a lot of these enemies
of Reason is that they have a
consequentialist relationship with truth
right it doesn't matter if you violate
truth if there is some greater goal that
you're pursuing
whereas I come from a deontological
perspective when it comes to truth truth
is truth no matter who whose feelings it
hurts and so I truly think certainly as
a scientist you truly have to have a
deontological relationship with truth
this is precisely why when
a lot of people asked me do you think
that there is for a bit and I think we
even mentioned that last time I was on
your show 16 months ago
is there any forbidden knowledge that
you shouldn't do as a scientist and my
answer is always an unequivocal no as
long as you are a honest adherent to the
scientific method you should be allowed
to traverse any intellectual landscapes
intellectual landscapes can be
problematic when they deal with things
that are very uncomfortable for people
and what big one is IQ right that's a
giant one and that one has triggered so
many accusations of racism and well
there was a there was a gentleman I just
covered him on my on my youtube channel
I don't know who he is his name is I
think Noah Carl he's a young
I think postdoc at Cambridge University
who from all I know you know is a very
reasonable gentleman who had been
invited to speak at a conference on
intelligence and because of that a bunch
of folks decided to put together an open
letter arguing that Cambridge University
should not hire this guy and so on this
has now become the standard way by which
the Bates are resolved you you signed
these open letters so for had another
guy on and you should definitely check
this this guy out his name is Alessandro
stroma he is a physicist do you know
this case no he's a physicist at the
University of Pisa who is also a was a
research scientist at CERN the the
nuclear research center in Geneva he was
invited to speak at a gender and
theoretical physics conference
everything is about identity politics
and of course the narrative was going to
be you know women are discriminated
against in physics and you know we need
to help them you know improve their lot
in physics and so on so he got up and he
presented bibliometric data so let me
just for your viewers explain what that
is if the Oh metric data is is
data that quantifies science so for
example if I want to know which
discipline sites which other discipline
I will look at citation patterns across
disciplines does economics ever cite
physics as physics ever cites economics
right so bibliometric data is a way to
parameterize science and so what he did
is he looked at for a given job in
physics if a woman gets a job versus if
a man gets a job how many citations did
they have citation is basically how many
other people have cited your work when
you published it so you and I might have
have published 50 papers each but you've
been cited ten thousand times I've been
cited two thousand times therefore your
work is more influential even though
we've both published the same amount of
papers and he showed through very
objective data that for a given position
women were getting the jobs at much
lower citations well that was construed
as terribly offensive terribly sexist
you know nazi-like and so over 1,600
scientists using the the appellation
particles for justice i'm not making
this up wise you can go to articles for
just young Jamie can check it out yeah
and you can you can read their letter
and it includes I think one or two of
your former guests who have become a
very anti fan of anti fan not antifa
because to me they're they're sounding
like intellectual cows and fools who
were these people I think one of them is
Sean Carroll you know that is I think
you know sure it's been on several Tom
yeah so he's on that list and I don't
know I don't want to misspeak but I
think maybe Neil deGrasse Tyson is on it
but maybe not so that one that one I'll
hold off on though but definitely Sean
Carroll is on it because I've even
tagged him and I said hey come on my
show let's discuss it so the letter was
basically it starts off and it says we
will not tolerate that someone within
our community I'm paraphrasing will
question the humanity of anyone based on
their race their gender their gender
orientation he did no such thing
all he did was report bibliometric data
to either support
contention that women in physics were
being discriminated against or not that
should not yield an open letter that
chastises and the way that they did now
the only thing that he did incorrectly
in my view and he's admitted to it he
came on my show recently at one point
during the presentation he showed his
bibliometric profile versus two other
women that had gotten a job over him so
he personalized it anywhere and in doing
that some people thought that that was
inappropriate and that's fair maybe it's
not a nice thing to do to present you
know your CV versus someone else in a
public conference maybe we can discuss
that but the idea that we can't use
bibliometric objective scientific data
to either prove or disprove a narrative
is insane and yet 1,600 people decided
to sign that letter that does seem
ridiculous especially when it's an
accusatory narrative this you're
accusing people of sexual discrimination
and then this the the scientific data
shows otherwise exactly but they're
looking for a quality of outcome right
they're looking for an equal amount of
female physicists and on the mountain
and that's you just you're not gonna get
an equal amount of people interested in
it so then you what you really have to
show is you have to determine that
there's been something that's holding
those people back from achieving that
goal there's some sort of a concerted
effort to keep living out of that field
that's what should be demonstrated and
when you demonstrate that I think here's
the here's the glass half-full version
of that you're looking at that but blue
bibliometric data what that shows is
that people are encouraging women to get
into this that it's the opposite right
that instead of them being held back
they're actually they're there looking
to even out the playing field and help
these women along the problem with that
is then it makes it look like the women
aren't as capable as thematic so they're
not as effective as the men with their
work and you know that's bad for
everybody that's bad for women in for
men it's bad for science because it
makes it look like you're not being
objective which is what all we want
every everyone who's not a scientist
like myself what I want more than
anything is to know that you if you're a
scientist I want to know that what
you're telling me is a fact
what I don't want is your own political
spin on that fact because you don't want
to be criticized at work by radical
feminists or radical leftists or any
people that might in some way
potentially misconstrue your actions and
your thoughts as being sexist or
whatever feeling of like homophobic
transphobic whatever whatever the fuck
it is that you're scared of I don't want
to hear that what I want to hear is that
you're looking at reality right there
are brilliant women out there there's
brilliant men out there and a lot of
those brilliant women choose not to do
the same fields as brilliant men and as
long as no one's holding them back that
shouldn't be a problem the problem is
gotta be in someone being held back
someone discriminating someone trying to
keep you out and you you're gonna have
to demonstrate that and I'm sure that
exists I'm sure that it exists I'm sure
there's women out there that are hearing
this right now that have experienced all
sorts of discrimination sexual
discrimination sexual harassment and
they have their own personal stories
this is true but that not is not
necessarily why the data reflects that
there's more men that are successful at
this it could seriously this is this is
what people are really uncomfortable
with seriously represent that there's
differences in the sexes right and I
know that's so hard well listen so hard
from the first time I think that I came
on your show when I probably first
discussed my you know evolution
psychology research I mean it's a
fundamental tenet of evolutionary theory
that there are sexual dimorphism right
when I appear in front of the Canadian
Senate I had to sit there and lecture
these senators that there is such a
thing as male or female but meanwhile
while many of them scoffed and laughed
and tried to mock me it turns out a few
days ago there's now an elementary
school you're teaching young kids that
boys to menstruate so literally every
satirical every I always joke I always
say that I have prophetic satire because
every time I try to look for something
that is so outlandish that it can enter
into my you know satire two months three
months eight months later it proves to
be true so for example at one point I
argued that I wanted to compete in the
octogenarian
under 120 pound
Gouri in judo because you identify first
because identifies 1825 and also I'm
trans gravity I I set my weight you know
whatever my weight is therefore and then
because I can change my identity on a
daily basis because Harvard University
taught us that I'm later going to fight
in the under eight-year-old category
hold on Harvard allows you to change it
on a daily basis University came out
that's actually discussed this in my
Canadian Senate testimony Harvard
University's lgbtqa+ stars versus our
infinite to the hashtag Mersenne Prime
exactly they came out with a pamphlet
that said not only can we change you
know our gender identity but it can
fluctuate on a daily basis right
so I could be he/she gear Monday Tuesday
Wednesday right so I took this idea and
I said well III don't afire as an
eighty-year-old
under 120 pound Monday but then I'm
going to fight in the judo competition I
used Judah because my brother was an
Olympian in judo as I figure out of this
yes I'm going to fight and the under 8
category on Tuesday because I
self-identify on Tuesday as being a
child now it sounds satirical and insane
a Dutch gentleman who's 69 years old did
you know this case it's trans ageism he
just he decided that he identifies with
someone 20 years younger and he wants to
use it on dating yeah exactly and then
that would change his pension thing well
whatever it was so so I mean we're then
then I introduce a new term and then
that proved to be prophetic ELISA
satirical I coined a new condition
called transgenderism by proxy so so if
if if you're watching now enjoy this if
Joe and God have sex if I self identify
you as a woman then I'm engaging in
heterosexual sex so it's not about me
self identify me yeah I sigh I can
change my identity Tyson your own
interpretations exactly so it's not it's
not that my self-identity changes into a
woman the the guy that I'm having sex
with I self-identify
as a female uh well a few weeks maybe
not even a few weeks later some trans
activists on Twitter came out and said
you disgusting transphobes
just because you have excuse the term a
dick in your mouth doesn't mean that
that's a dick if it's a woman and I call
this trans the cunnilingus
it doesn't mean it's a dick if that
person woman is a woman so just because
you have a dick in your mouth it doesn't
mean it's a dick because that's a woman
you are giving sex to a woman do you
know yeah there's a nine-inch penis in
your in your thing but it's a vagina
yeah I'll put they put tampons in the
men's room yes sir of course I said not
only women of course I have that's true
that's my daily like that's called
Tuesday for me man I have a hard time
getting that out because I'm like why
women aren't the only ones who men
straight what yes they are yes they are
god damn it what boys can have periods
to children to be taught the latest
victory for trendy there you go I love
how they say that the latest victory
that's right latest victory for who
wrote that story who wrote that box who
Elena hey Elena fuck off that's not a
victory that's nonsense that is goddamn
nonsense but can I tell you what's not
victory that's crazy kids kids don't
know if you want to tell kids that
sometimes people are born in the wrong
body that seems to be true there seems
to be real evidence to that in terms of
the way the brain works sure I mean you
if you want to call it the problem is
distinguishing it from normalcy in a way
that makes it look inferior right right
there's no there are real problems so if
someone has this condition they
shouldn't feel inferior and you
shouldn't be bigoted towards them and
they shouldn't live being exposed to any
discrimination right but we shouldn't
change our understanding of reality to
celebrate your unique person hood
exactly and incidentally one of the
things I talk about in the book
all of these idea pathogens I argue some
of them come from really noble places I
think so as well yeah so let's cover
few DS so for example the empty slate
premise tabula rasa were born with empty
minds is a profoundly idiotic position
but it really stems from the noble
hopeful position that if we're all born
with equal potentiality we could all
reach the same end trajectory if only
the environment were conducive for us
being top athletes top scientists top
mathematicians then we would have
reached it there is nothing inherently
at the start at T equals zero that
differentiates any of us now that's
insanely stupid and wrong but it is a
hopeful message now extend this to other
contexts right it shouldn't be that
you're defined by your biological sex
you could change it in any way you want
that sounds very liberating right so I
think a lot of these idea pathogens what
I call these these parasitic ideas
really come from a notion of trying to
liberate people from otherwise they're
the shackles of reality so it's insane
yeah it's a form of delusional thinking
but that is rooted it's Genesis comes
from a good place I couldn't agree with
that more and gender dysphoria used to
be considered used to be considered a
mental disorder right but isn't it right
well this is it but what is it okay
let's be honest if it's not if it's is
it a physical disorder what is it I'll
put it in a very ok charitable
politically correct way it's certainly
not part of the default value of human
expressions do you see what I'm saying
yes male and female is the default
values we are a sexually dimorphic
species now for all sorts of reasons
ontogenetic developmental reasons when
the brain is getting typed in utero
things can happen that alter those
default values now you come out with
gender dysphoria you shouldn't be
discriminated against you should be
treated with complete respect you should
be free of bigotry aggress mean that
there is a spectrum of possibilities of
which that one is one of the default
values it simply isn't it's wrong to
argue that but in the same way that
feminists like to argue that there are
no innate sex differences because that
they think would help
alter the sexist status quo this is
what's happening with trans activism
that's why they are consequentialist
when it comes to truth screw truth screw
reality screw biological common-sense in
the pursuit of freeing the world of
bigotry you should be able to free the
world of bt-yakin bigotry without
constantly attacking truth well and
here's the other question if it is not
this is what I was getting at if it is
if if it's not a mental disorder
what is is it a physical disorder is it
a disorder at all and if it's not a
disorder why must it be treated
medically why must it be gender
reassignment surgery why must there be
exogenous hormones introduced into the
body why is all that happening
rhetorical question are you asking me
but just to them I mean it's kind of
rhetorical there's no one here but if
it's not a disorder then why are these
gender reassignment physicians here you
if you don't have to have a sex change
to be a woman if you're a woman with a
big dick and broad shoulders and a big
hairy chest but you're a woman right
well what is the need for the doctor
then if you're already a woman if we
decided you're a woman so you just want
to change your appearance to outwardly
match how you feel inwardly well the
exact seems a disorder well right there
and I wonder I'm not sure so I don't
want to misspeak but I wonder if I think
in the dsm-5 gender dysphoria is listed
as a condition is that is that correct
it is listed as a condition but it's not
accepted by that in in terms of like
public perception and certainly in terms
of trans activists or LBGT activists or
anybody who talks about these things in
a progressive way that is of taboo like
the actual medical nomenclature that's
used to describe those conditions is
taboo well there's I don't know if you
heard about this case there was a
physician research scientist at Brown
University who published a paper very
serious data scientific data I think her
name is Lisa limp allure lippel I can't
remember her name it was published I
think in plus one you know very serious
scientific
where she looked at the social contagion
of sort of transgenderism how if you
know there definitely seems to be well
well literally that a social contagion
effect now that paper was published
Brown had advertised it it was published
in a top peer-reviewed journal
well the trans activists came after that
paper and Brown decided to at least pull
it off of it's sort of promotional key I
reached out actually to a thing her name
is Lisa to get her on the show but as
you might imagine she was a bit that's
it yeah she's probably shell-shocked she
shall shot and so I'm not sure if she'll
come but again here's a serious person
who probably is a as liberal she's and
she's a physician who deals with these
issues who were simply talking about the
fact that there's definitely a social
contagion effect that is taking place
she's a Nazi yeah there's people are
just really really crazy when it comes
to gender that seems to be the
battleground the battleground between
logic and science it rests and gender
and I had this conversation with a
friend of mine about the the gender pay
gap and he was arguing it as if it was a
thing where there was a man and a woman
working right next to each other doing
the same job and the woman was making 78
cents the man was making a dollar and
he's a smart guy and I had to explain
them I said this is not the case I go
there they're doing different jobs
they're working different hours I go
you're spitting out propaganda as if
it's true and he was reluctant to
believe me you know he was like are you
serious I'm he and he Leary said this he
was I'm gonna be very upset if I find
out that you're you're lying to me I go
that I'm lying to you I go this is
adorable
you're gonna be you don't even know what
the fuck you're talking about and you're
gonna be upset if you find out that I'm
lying I'm gonna be upset if you don't
fuckin apologize to me when I show you
this so that is oh I know he did not I
sent him the information I sent him many
articles on it and I sent him many
critiques of the way even the president
the United States was discussing this
because they're doing in a very
politically correct way that is actually
disingenuous I showed him the
actual raw data that shows that men work
an average of I forget what the
percentage is more hours that they
they're more likely to die on the job
they pick more risky jobs it's a totally
different thing this is not discounting
actual sexual discrimination at work
which I'm sure exists but this is not
when you're looking at the raw data
which is what they're trying to say the
78 cents to a dollar they're saying this
is just systemic sexism across the board
there's no other explanation for it so I
showed him no there is other
explanations form it's different jobs
it's working different hours it's
there's probably a bunch of factors
testosterone making you more aggressive
making you more risk of a more
risk-taker risk-taking there's all sorts
of different factors his response was
sometimes the perception of something is
as important as the fact I'm like you
motherfucker I'm gonna come to your
house and smack you in the face in front
of your woman you know but it's it's
interesting that you say this because
what you are trying to do there is is
use information hopefully it's tsunami
of information to get him to move away
from his anchored position which is
something that I discuss in great detail
in my book and I think I've come to a
similar realization to you regrettably
and that that is that oftentimes all the
information in the world is not going to
help yeah he didn't want to lose he
didn't want to lose yeah and it really
is you're putting your hands in your
lalala oh he was trying to find a way to
say by him saying that perception is
sometimes more important than the actual
facts I was trying to say he was trying
to say that women are discriminated
against because these facts are paraded
around in a way that make women feel bad
right and because women feel bad that
they're making 78 cents of the man's
dollar that is just as important as the
actual reality of how much they make oh
my god damn it this is you just spun a
web you spun a bullshit web and your
legs are all trapped up in it you can't
go anywhere now well it speaks to
another thing that I discuss in the book
so you are you familiar with poppers
falsification principle no so Karl
Popper was a philosopher of science as a
general rule I hate to read most
philosophers because they engage in a
lot of highfalutin bullshit that really
doesn't get us anywhere but philosophers
of science actually are quite helpful
that they really help us understand the
epistemology of how to learn about
knowledge create knowledge test
knowledge and so Karl Popper argued that
if you really want to test a theory you
have to be able to falsify the theory
that which cannot be falsified cannot be
considered a scientific theory right
if the observation is this way it
supports the theory if the observation
is this way it falsifies the theory so
for example fate is not a scientific
theory right because if I step out of my
house today and the truck hits me it was
my faith if I step out of my house and
the truck doesn't hit me there was my
faith so there are no conditions of the
world where whatever is instantiated is
not my faith therefore fatalism is not
part of you know the epistemology of
science right well so to speak to that
point that we were talking about earlier
how once someone is anchored in a
position you can't get them away from it
so I talk and I have a section of my
book that is currently titled all roads
lead to bigotry all right so let me give
you an example a few examples of these
if you say that you don't wanna have sex
with overweight women grossly overweight
women 500-pound women then the argument
is you're a fattest right you are
judging us based on the folds of our
skin and you're dehumanizing us if you
are someone who is specifically looking
to have sex with someone who is
overweight
you are fetishizing our skin fold so if
I love having sex with a fat woman I'm a
bad person if I don't want to have sex
with a fat woman I'm a bad person and I
demonstrate through many of these
examples how all roads lead to
victimhood right I give the example I
think the last time I was on the show of
a woman who had done a study
demonstrating that soldiers Israeli
soldiers had never raped a Palestinian
woman do you remember that case now she
what she had done the study hoping to
show that there was rampant rape of
Palestinian women she couldn't uncover a
single documented case of a Palestinian
woman being raped by IDF soldiers
Israeli Defense Forces soldiers what did
she conclude from that well the IDF
soldiers are so racist that they
dehumanize these women so much that
they're not even worthy of being raped
so if you rape the Palestinian women
you're an evil Jew if you don't rape any
of the Palestinian women you're an evil
Jew and so through all of these examples
I demonstrate that all states of the
world lead to you being a bigot and that
if you like fails poppers falsification
principle except yeah except the state
of not choosing at all meaning meaning
if you like if you don't choose between
a fat woman or if you don't love a fat
woman or you don't not want to have sex
with a fat one you just have sex with
anyone who wants up second right like
that's the equal outcome I mean
essentially that's what they're looking
for right because if you don't choose
but what's really interesting about
people is if someone doesn't have your
principles ideologically you're allowed
to shit on them and body shame them like
how many people called Trump disgusting
and made fun of his little hands and how
many liberals left-wing people's talking
about how much much much he had must
obviously have a little dick right right
it's like yeah it's horseshit yeah I
mean hypocrisy is across both aisles
right yeah speaking of it I don't want
to get into this at all but what did you
think I know it's a bit old news now but
what do you think of some of our common
friends is response to the Cavanaugh
situation our common friends responses
some of some of our common friends I
thought did not respond well they did
not follow the intelligible ethos as far
as I'm concerned like for example so for
example the presumption of innocence
should be something that is so
profoundly a non-starter in terms of
ever violating that that tenant okay
that to the extent that we didn't come
infinitely close to establishing that he
was guilty of anything it's a
non-starter that you don't there is no
repercussions that should befall him and
yet many folks that both of us know were
not of that opinion so for example one
of the one of our friends thought that
well this wasn't a criminal case this
was a job interview and so we don't need
to reach the same exacting level of
evidence evidence to determine for him
to be potentially
guilty I thought that was grotesque who
said that his name rhymes with sham
Paris well I think people were rightly
concerned about Cavanaugh's ideology in
terms of his record on privacy his
promotion of the Patriot Act there was a
bunch of issues that people had real
concern those seemed to go away while
this was all going on it was really
confusing to me like there's real
reasons to be concerned about this guy
the Jordan Jordan said put out a tweet
and I might have been the first one to
to critique him for it where he said if
Cavanaugh is confirmed he should step
down I thought that that was insane why
what he said well I you know
subsequently he said oh it was a thought
experiment no there's no thought
experiment right I mean there was I mean
any sane person would think that someone
coming out 36 years after the fact five
minutes before there's going to be the
vote saying well somewhere somehow
someplace not sure he may have been the
one he's not going to like she was
saying he may have been the one she was
saying he was the one and she was saying
that he covered her mouth yeah and that
he was trying to get her pants off but
she was wearing a one-piece swimsuit
right and yeah I read into it I don't
know what happened that's there's a
little problem I know one knows what
happened other than her and him and both
of them are dealing with 36 year old
memories but I'm saying right here I've
already said this on my show I remember
I think it was in 1983 I was at some
summer camp and Hillary Clinton took me
to the side and had my way pretty sure
it was 1983 maybe in 1984 she had her
way with you yeah sure yeah I'm pretty
sure it was Hillary pretty sure pretty
kind of sure I'm kind of confident was
her kinda yeah look Elizabeth Loftus who
is someone that I know well who's a
professor at UC Irvine who is the
preeminent researcher on memory and I
eyewitness testimony someone who has
demonstrated through many many decades
of research that our memory is
unbelievably inaccurate unbelievable
our ability to remember sort of to
identify someone in a testimony four
weeks ago is unbelievably suspect let
alone 36 years ago that's true so where
was the science let me pause because
there are traumatic events that you can
remember very well particularly if
someone tries to assault you or
something happens to you that did get
seared into your brain that's a fact I
mean I remember I remember being beat up
when I was seven right
I remember being humiliated my stepdad
everyone wasn't really beat up by a kid
he'll hit me like once or twice or
something like that but I didn't do
anything about it I froze and I remember
my stepdad came and rescued me I
remember that I don't remember all the
details but I do remember that I felt
humiliated and that I lost and I do
remember that my stepdad how to rescue
me I remember that right
like you can remember stuff from 36
years ago it is it is possible but the
problem with this story is that they
were drinking they were underage they
were really young okay so you're dealing
with all these factors there was some
sort of interaction physically you know
was she somewhat willing was she
somewhat into him was she completely
resistant to it I don't know she doesn't
know he doesn't know but there's no
demonstrated pattern of him doing awful
things and then on top of that there was
a couple at least two people that had
completely fraudulent claims right that
came out and they were ideologically
ideologically opposed to him so they had
concocted these stories that turned out
to fall apart here's my feeling on that
if someone does that intentionally they
should receive the same kind of
punishment I could not agree with that
someone would get yes if they were
convicted of those acts there's an
article on this I just a few of you
falsely accused some on a rape
intentionally falsely accuse someone a
rape you
are literally subjecting them to the
punishment of rape what if the
prosecution goes through what if that
person winds up getting incarcerated
locked in a cage separated from their
family taking away their ability to earn
a living
you should be treated the same way you
were trying to get them to be treated I
think it is almost an equal act to rape
itself you know I and I hope I almost I
hope it's not doesn't have physical
violence I'm gonna go further than you
maybe it's gonna get me into trouble I
almost would argue that it is more
diabolical because the rapist does a
horrific act on you once every single
morning that you wake up as a false
accuser knowing that you have put this
person in prison and you go about your
day you're engaging in this form of rape
if you like so I would disagree with
that because I think if you rape someone
that person who got raped has to deal
with that the real pain of being
physically violated and the guy who's in
prison for 25 years and getting raped by
seven guys guys got to learn how to
fight cuz your butt cheeks closed and
keep moving man by the way both of them
are awful I think the rapist is far more
awful because it's physically doing
something I had a guy on my show maybe
you know I've had maybe not as many
people as you have but I've had quite a
few amazing people on my show one of the
most poignant ones was a gentleman that
I invited and I was lucky that he
accepted my invitation was a I think his
name is David McCallum McCallum so it
may be last January he had Jeff he had
been released from I think almost three
decades in prison for a murder that came
up that wasn't him who did it move now
the reason why I invited him more than
just because it's an incredible story is
that I had seen his response to the
unimaginable injustice that he had gone
through I think he went in when he was
17 and now he was in his late 40s and he
had such grace such lack of anger I mean
it literally was he was Buddha and so I
thought how powerful it would be to have
this person come on my show if only to
tap into this unbelievable ability I
mean and I told him I think on the show
that if it were me I would be so eaten
up by anger
a sense of revenge I want to burn the
whole planet down anyways this is a
great guy you should you should
definitely check him out he's written a
book about it's pretty amazing story
yeah false accusations are awful and and
and people who are people who lie to try
to punish someone who didn't do anything
that's an awful crime and I think it
should be equal in punishment to the
crime that you are falsely accusing
someone of doing I really do I think
that's the only way to stop it the real
problem is with false rape accusations
is that there's very little punishment
at all that happens to the women for the
most part or the men men who accused men
of falsely raping them there's very very
little happen why do you think that is I
don't know I don't understand I don't
understand why people don't think about
it as the horrific thing that it
actually is I think it's partly because
people are afraid of doubting someone
who has been raped if you what one of
the more horrific things you could do is
I imagine if you had been raped and then
you told your story and I came along and
I have no knowledge of the actual event
and I come along and I go p--'s dad's a
liar this is bullshit it never happened
nothing happened to him he's just a baby
he just wants attention so he's running
around here he was wearing a short skirt
and he went out that night and you know
you know and that's that is something
that does happen so I think that is so
disgusting
someone who doubts someone who has
actually been a victim that people are
scared of that and then also there's the
kid gloves approach we don't treat women
accusing men of things the same way we
accuse women accuse you know men
accusing women of things men accusing
women of things we're if a man accuses a
woman of violence whoops you okay dude
you're gonna be fine if a woman beats up
her husband which does happen I mean I
know a guy whose girlfriend used to
punch the shit out of him and and I was
like bro you got to get out like you are
you're literally being a beauty you're
done being domestically abused and no
one's even gonna care right do you
understand like you got to get out of
this relationship because look if you
were hitting her
if a man is hitting a woman Dan I'm
locked that motherfucker up that's how I
feel and I'm sure that's how you feel
true that guy's a piece of shit first
but if a woman hits a man I'm like just
keep your hands up man don't let her hit
ya it's like I just but this is from me
a man whose friend was murdered by his
wife one of my good friends Phil Hartman
oh yes more hurted by his wife so demand
this is a woman who was always insulting
him always like publicly humiliation saw
this during saw her publicly humiliated
insult him I saw it many times
she's a very angry person she had a
cocaine problem she was also on Zoloft
they want some sort of a settlement with
Zola if the family did because she was
doing cocaine and zoloft at the same
time and it's known to have a psychotic
reaction but she shot him in his fucking
sleep man I mean women do commit
violence it's not as common but it's
still gross it's still an egregious
crime but good luck trying to go to get
someone locked up for it Wow good luck
getting anybody to be sympathetic even
me
did you ever I mean not that I can hear
well I met your wife she's a lovely
woman I'm she kicked your ass I probably
be on her side you're probably wondering
how how is someone so gorgeous as her
choose me that's you're out you're
thinking that lovely Meryl thank you
buddy oh I wanted to actually share with
you and I was I was hoping to only
discuss this for you to only see it in
the book but I can't you opened me up
Joe Rogan I can't help but cheer sorry I
came close to probably being a victim of
some very serious I have never been
sexually abused or anything but I think
I escaped one narrowly when I was a
child in Lebanon oh so this was during
the civil war and that this has all
discussed in the intro to my forthcoming
book it was during the height of the I
mean the start of the civil war where
nobody would leave the house I mean
everybody's being butchered left trying
to center we're trying to leave Lebanon
for obvious reasons
my father had been stuck out of the
country he couldn't get back into
Lebanon it was myself my mother
I believe my sister was there and a male
friend of ours who was stuck at our
and in the middle of the night there's a
knock on our door now this is in the
middle of the most brutal civil war you
could imagine so if somebody knocks at
your door it's usually not a good thing
and I go to the door to answer
speaking about remembering you were
saying earlier this is I'm 11 years old
or at least at the cusp of turning 11 I
get to the door
who is this the gentleman says it's me I
can't remember if his name was Amador
Mohammad one of the two he says it's so
and so who's this now at the time in
Lebanon in our kitchen we had you
remember how in restaurants in the old
days you'd have these in the bathrooms
you'd have these sort of towels that you
could use to wipe your hands now yes not
not disposable
yeah actual cloth towels hmm so we had a
service where this gentleman would come
and in our kitchen we had one of these
things he would pick them up launder
them and then bring them back so this
gentleman who that's our only
relationship with him knocks at our door
with some other guys and says hey open
the door now this is in the middle of
the Civil War knife at that moment I
opened that door if I don't have the
instinct to go call my mother I don't
know what the trajectory would be so I
go to get my mother and now the guy's
growing more insistent we call anyways
there's a whole interaction that takes
place but we refuse to open the door for
him at the time there was still some
sort of police presence and Lebanon the
the unit used to be called 16 in Arabic
the number 16 maybe for the precinct or
whatever we called them up they come
over the guy comes in and the policeman
says to him what are you doing here
knocking on these people's door in the
middle of civil war he says oh we went
up to the mountains we brought some
Palmer greats for them and so the
policeman looks at him and says you
don't know these people other than
changing their towel in the middle of
the spoodle Civil War you're coming here
to give them these fruits if I ever
catch you here again you know whatever
and then the guy looks at us and says
I'll be back for you or something that
and within a week or two I can remember
the exact time period we had left now
I'm almost certain I don't know I'm
surmising but I'm almost certain that
this guy with his buddies was coming
over not because he wanted to share a
coffee and you know cookies and my
feeling is some bad stuff would have
happened that night but through the
grace of the cosmos we were protected so
because I've often been asked what was
the scariest moment you had in the Civil
War and there were many many many things
that I saw but nothing scared me as much
as that interaction because I sort of
pretty much knew what was in store for
us dehumanizing that happens during war
leads to all sorts of horrific acts you
know it's disgusting and scary you know
you probably dodged a bullet I really
did dodge a bullet and we're so
fortunate to have left I've actually
been asked to go back to Lebanon many
times and at this point by you know some
pretty prominent people big politicians
and so on and I really have a mental
block I even get Lebanese folks saying
listen we we know people who will
protect you and so on I - do you live in
Canada now it's one of the greatest
countries of the world's ever known
well I go back yeah fuck that you guys
come to me don't visit Toronto the fuck
out of here
you liked it I loved it that's one of my
favorite cities you know one of the
things I loved about it it's like a big
city but the people are friendly like
it's a small town right I don't know how
the hell you guys pulled that off
we're just good people do you feel do
you feel a difference between Montreal
and Toronto because I like Toronto
better sorry Montreux you hurt me pool I
do like what what is it that you don't
like when we go I do love montreal
montreal
it is the conflict like the adventure
English yeah that conflict seems to me
totally ridiculous the idea that you're
gonna secede yeah good luck yeah get
you're gonna leave Canada okay
congratulations gonna be your own
country that nobody goes to right you're
gonna make everybody speak French that's
so stupid they make they put French
signs everywhere I get they're trying to
like cling on to their culture I get it
and their culture is wonderful
the food's fantastic there's great
people Montreal beautiful women
they're beautiful I love Montreal but I
love to run no more
sorry incidentally I'm I'm I learned
French before I did English so I'm a
more francophone through through history
and I fully agree with you about the
stupidity of the French protection so I
I I was yeah I was invited once this was
probably in the late 90s I had been a
professor a few years I was invited by
one of the big business schools in
Montreal HEC which is a French acronym
I've been invited to give a talk there
they were interested in potentially
making me an offer
and so I said are you I'm assuming that
I'm getting my talking in English right
because I mean my whole scientific
career has been in English even though
I'm fluent in French so no no we'd
really like you to give it in French and
I thought that that was so payzone
Pirozhki
it was so small minded right I mean I
mean you don't see Israeli people saying
hey how come we're not doing this in
Hebrew you don't see the Japanese saying
why isn't this happening in Japanese
right the two groups that I see doing
this are the Germans and the French but
whether it be in Quebec or in France and
I think it's in part because they don't
accept that they're no longer the big
bully
of the world the positive side would be
that they're just celebrating this
language you know they appreciate their
heritage but you shouldn't be protecting
your heritage through draconian means
correct so when you have language police
going around measuring whether the
French sign is bigger than the English
one you're getting stuck in the weeds
right yeah that is a weird one that they
do but such a beautiful city and the
people are really nice there too and
they're hearty people in Montreal and
people in Toronto they're hearty folk
because the winter I think is yeah you
got a deal with shit you got a deal with
adversity over there but it's
interesting in that there's so much
nicer than the people that deal with the
adversity in the cold climates in in
America there's something about the
United States when you deal with the
cold climate people or mean yeah I've
been asked and I don't think I had an
answer maybe I think it was Ruben who
asked me why do you think that many of
the sort of people on the forefront of
the you know freedom of speech you know
debate all stem from
Canada and I don't think I had a good
reason do you have any any thoughts as
to why is it just a will you sent a
freedom of speech laws right that's one
of the reasons so that it does not have
a First Amendment so Canada does not
have the same with what we have here in
the United States is fuckin beautiful
you're right it's one of the only places
on earth where it is literally a part of
our law that you should be able to
express yourself freely right and that
this ethic is something that permeates
our culture it permeates our identity
it's something that we all cling to
freedom of speech this is very important
and this is one of the reasons why we
get so stunned when we see censorship
when we see a censorship that it just
doesn't make any sense right it's not
justified what you guys have over there
is a much more slippery slope human
rights councils and all that weirdness
that we've seen time and time again with
people getting fined for jokes yeah you
know I mean there's there's a lot of
like very very weird stuff that you guys
have to deal with up there because you
simply don't have a First Amendment
showing your thing that that that causes
more people to come out of kind of the
defending freedom of speech yes because
you really can you're right next to us
right you're right we're all spouting
off at the mouth and fucking shooting
nuclear bombs into the atmosphere I mean
with this you're living next to a bunch
of fucking wild hillbillies is what it's
like this is what it's like if you live
it in Canada you're living next to
United States like what are those
fucking crazy assholes doing but at
least those crazy assholes can say
whatever they want right you know I mean
who knows if this podcast would be even
possible in Canada I don't know I mean
we could have gotten in trouble for some
of the things that we've said along the
way it's entirely likely right speaking
of because you mentioned the Human
Rights Tribunal I think at one point I
discussed on the show the indigenous
woman who argued that she should get
tenure despite not having published
anything do you know that story you know
I don't so let me I mean let me
stayed that story or okay or maybe
stated for the first time because it
relates to something bigger than I'd
like to discuss in the Canadian context
so there's this now push in Canadian
universities to have what's called to
indigenized
the universities okay and to the
indigenized means many things so in one
case the case that I just mentioned
briefly before you had a professor in
the law faculty at the University of
British Columbia who was an indigenous
woman who had not published much if
anything and had God had been given
every single opportunity you know
extensions on her 10-year clock and so
on and then finally when she didn't get
tenure she filed a complaint with the
British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal
arguing that her tradition is an oral
one and therefore by forcing her to
write things down you know as a as an
academic was right I mean it's
unbelievable so that I saying her
tradition is being on land and you
should be forced to swim in a swimming
event exactly they right but by the way
Judaism is based also on oral tradition
so by that logic all those Jewish
scientists who won Nobel Prizes yes
but the more nefarious manifestation of
indigenous ation well there are two
other instances one annoying but not so
serious and one I think very serious the
annoying but not so serious is we're now
at every single event and Kant and
Canadian universities that say you're
giving out diplomas you have to first
sell flagellate and apologize for
sitting on stolen land right so here are
students who've spent years getting
their degrees this is their moment to
shine this is about them but you have to
first hear about why we're all evil
because we're and transgressing on you
know native land that's one example the
more serious example is where it is no
longer appropriate to say that the
scientific method is the way of knowing
that there are alternate ways of knowing
that are just as valid and what are
those so for example in the the
indigenous way of knowing
now I've argued that when it comes to
content specific knowledge for example
if you're going to study something in
the
deep north where the Inuits have lived
for thousands of years they're going to
have local knowledge about the flora
about the fauna that is truly valuable
that's that is in fact scientific
knowledge but exactly that's exact but
but we but I'm saying that's what I'm
saying it's content-specific
right okay we should be appreciative of
that knowledge and listen to it but that
doesn't mean that's fix your point that
it is outside the purview of the
scientific method there is no
epistemology that is there is no
Lebanese Jewish way of knowing there is
no Joe Rogan's way of knowing there
isn't any transgender way of knowing
this information it's just the
scientific method that's the only game
in town while they're arguing that know
there are ways of not just like the
hashtag science must fall I mentioned
this on the Rubin report did you know
this hashtag science must fall yeah this
is what's gonna rise they're called
they're called Follis actually this is
this came out of the University of
Capetown one of the top universities in
South Africa where the students were
arguing that it is ridiculous that we
only abide by the scientific method
there are all sorts of other booga-booga
ways of knowing that are just I mean I'm
using Pluto but you know what I mean
right you could dance and make the rain
come down you know whatever I mean like
spiritual shamanism ways of knowing that
are that are outside the purview of the
scientific method and that is grotesque
and so one of the things that I argue
probably doesn't make me a lot of
friends at the University is that there
is no indigenous way of knowing please
jeez google hashtag science must fall I
need to remember those a website for
know your meme and I got the video of
where it starts there you go
dr. sad proves to be true again I have a
feeling this is a 4chan thing on that
that's real yeah two three years old
please make that larger so my shitty
eyes could read it science must fall is
a hashtag mocking a movement to abolish
society its mocking no but the original
idea is that you should decolonize your
mind I understand but it's blocking that
movement mark
movement to abolish the scientific
method and replace it with a new
understanding of scientific inquiry this
movement was started by a group of
students known as Follis at the
University of Capetown who want to
decolonize science from Western
modernity as a an offshoot of the
ongoing fees must fall movement
protesting increases in university
tuition that's one thing can ask going
for it too yeah that you guys have no
solution yeah way lower
you doubt health care and and student we
pay for it put times right yeah but it's
worth it I mean I've said time and time
look I I believe in the hybrid form of
governing in a hybrid form of culture
and I think that I've support a lot of
socialized ideas sure and one of the
reasons why is because I see socialism
work with the fire department with the
police department with with things that
we all agree that we're going to chip it
and pay for and the fact that we don't
do this with health care that you know
if my neighbor gets sick the community
has to chip and goddammit that guy's
been paying taxes his whole life he's a
viable part of the community we should
be taking care of our own this should be
a primary thing like this to strengthen
our community to strengthen our
civilization one of the primary things
is you we should be taking care of each
other physically it should be like above
all right education you should have to
fucking be in debt a quarter million
dollars if I get a fucking education
don't we want less losers don't we want
more people to have education don't we
want more people to have some sort of
pathway to success wouldn't that just
logically lead to a a stronger economy a
stronger community stronger civilization
wouldn't it wasn't that logical let me
give a devil's advocate advocate answer
to the extent that they are now no
longer any barriers to entry to get into
university certainly in Canada at least
not a financial one you get I think a
miss allocation of talent and resources
where everybody feels compelled to go to
university where in reality many of the
folks in question and believe me I'm the
last guy to argue against education
right I'm all about lifelong learning
but it doesn't have to be through the
formal Channel
of getting a degree but it's not
compulsory well it is compulsory
unofficially in that it is now no longer
acceptable to not have at least some
entry-level degree
well then we should concentrate on that
as an issue right okay that should be
the issue not this idea that somehow or
another education should be expensive so
it should be difficult so it should be
something that's only sought out by
people really not serve it fair enough
so I agree should the barrier to entry
shouldn't be that you know it's the
finances that don't allow you to pursue
your interests yeah but I know I mean
just as a professor for 25 years now
there are students that I see very early
in a given semester that I know they're
not there for entrance or they're not
there for intrinsic reasons right right
they just don't have the sparkle in
their eyes and no amount of coaxing on
my part is ever going to bring them out
I mean I try I think everybody's
redeemable but you can tell that they're
there because they don't have it maybe
those people would have had a much more
lucrative trajectory where they pursue
trade school mm-hmm so so I think we
have to also be careful about how to
allocate the talent that we have I know
that that absolutely makes sense and I
think that is most likely played out
over the difficulty of pursuing an
education just like it is with
everything else every everything else
like whatever you whatever you want to
be a stand-up comedian it's not
everybody gets to do Carnegie Hall like
there's there's a there's a weeding out
process of the difficulty of achieving
success and there's a lot of people that
fall by the wayside and don't make it
and this is just natural it's a natural
part of the process but if you say not
everybody's a comedian that's true but
open mic nights available to everybody
true and that's why there's so many
comedians that actually are good because
they do find it through because there's
no financial barrier to entry if it
costs you know $35,000 a year to pursue
an education and comedy and you had to
be $200,000 in debt before you can make
a living on the road there wouldn't be a
goddamn thing to laugh at there wouldn't
it be none of us right there'd be 0 of
us
and that's not a good X it's not a good
example because obviously comedy is one
of the rare things is a self-educated
you have to yourself taught there's no
other way you just have to pursue it but
I think there's the rigidness of
university studies you know the the
rigidness of courses of determining what
people should and shouldn't learn what
they should and shouldn't be educated in
who you know and there also the
randomness of the professors that you
get like you could get you and get a
wonderful education I'm sure or you can
get some dipshit and get taught about
you know how gender is a social
construct and you know and you're
sitting in class all baffled looking at
your penis going what have you done to
me fucking monster you know it's I'm at
the point now in my career as a
professor where I'm facing a bit of a
fork in that I I remain as passionate
about teaching students but the meat
this medium right appearing on Joe Rogan
and then having 10 million people watch
and maybe maybe be excited about
evolution psychology is so much of a
bigger platform that it causes me at
times a bit of angst when I have to put
in all the efforts that I have to put in
to teach a class of 14 people not that
each of those Minds is not worthy of
being educated and being inspired and so
on but I am facing at this point in my
career you know I'm at the mid-career
point in my life where you know I could
turn on my laptop and put up anything
and you know twenty five thousand people
watch it it's nothing compared to your
forum but it's 2530 ways and in terms of
his classroom size exactly arena full of
people exactly and so I think that's one
of the things that I now struggle with I
always remain as passionate once I walk
into class I'm just as passionate just
as committed but to the extent that we
have this fixed pie of time it becomes
so difficult to ever have the 12
students went out against the 12 million
students here would be my perspective
and maybe this can enhance this
experience for you I would treat it the
same way that a comedian treats
performing live like I do this podcast
and every time I do this podcast I'm
reaching millions of people what if I
decided well you know what I can't do
The Improv anymore it's only 190 people
do the Comedy Store it's only 400 people
in the main room that's not that's too
good analogy it's just too small yeah
but doing that doing you know the belly
room 70 people in the Comedy Store belly
room doing those little small riddles
your skills if it keeps you tied into
people - it keeps you engaged with
individual human beings it keeps you
real it's interesting that you say this
because this hadn't be out stitching an
MBA course this semester where we have
to miss two classes one because it was
Canadian Thanksgiving on a Monday and
then there was the provincial Canadian
Thanksgiving can okay when is it I mean
the real Thanksgiving well I really miss
first or ours first ours is the second
Monday in October
that's ridiculous yeah right yours is
also called Green Bay plays Dallas
that's called American Thanksgiving
it's called November 24th motherfucker
right or whatever Thursday okay November
so this mba class was being taught on
Monday so I missed one Monday because of
Thanksgiving and I missed the second
Monday because it was the official
provincial election in Quebec and by
university decree we had to cancel
classes and so the way that I made up
those classes and I asked the students I
said well you could come in on a Sunday
as the university has dictated or we I
could post them post the lectures online
and then eventually I asked them would
you prefer if I posted all my lectures
online and then I came in and did other
stuff in class or would you prefer that
I actually deliver the material live in
front of you and actually a lot of them
answered in a way similar to what you
just said which is there is something
intimate about delivering the message
right there physically tangibly that you
can't capture online a hundred percent
live performance in any way shape or
form whether it's music or comedy or I
mean I think teaching is informed a form
of live performances when you have
someone is disinterested and listless
and just sit they have no energy and
their teaching even if the information
is fascinating it's very difficult to
absorb whereas if you have someone like
yourself was passionate and engaging and
articulate and they have life to you
like it's fun and it makes the
educational experience something that
it's it's it's a performance-art it
really is it is you know what pisses me
off though when I received the teaching
evaluations I usually I get there
they're great okay I mean I scored very
well but once in a while you get someone
who enters something that you know is a
lie so I'll give you an example someone
says he wasn't accessible to his
students well the reality is there
wasn't a single time that a student ever
asked to meet me either during office
hours or if they can't make office hours
outside of office hours we could do a
Skype chat we could do a phone chat I've
never said I'm not meeting you I don't
have time with it's never happened yet
someone because they are protected by
the cloak of anonymity because the
teaching evaluations are done
anonymously can write whatever they want
and there is no opportunity for you to
rebut now of course the reality is this
has no effect on my career I mean I
could easily say who cares what they say
but I do care because probably like you
you'd like to think that every single
person and that audience is going to
hopefully find you funny and they walked
away entertained
you know because of your set and there's
no way for me to rebut them well
especially when there's someone's lying
about that that's that's really annoying
but I feel like it's like yelps course
you ever you ever read the up reviews
like you read them and you'll see all
these wonderful reviews the restaurant
was incredible the food was fantastic
the decor everything about it the the
waitress was amazing the chef came over
to our table and greeted us it was so
good and then you'll see one person
everyone was rude the food was dull you
know they don't like waiting it's the
same place exactly so and then so what I
always love to do one of my favorite
things to do on Yelp is I will go to a
restaurant and if I'm interested in this
restaurant I go wow look at this got
four and a half stars that's fucking
great and then I'll find a one-star and
I go okay let me click on their profile
and you will see a fucking tornado of
one-star reviews of every one of
everything fucking laundromats grocery
stores they hate everything it's so
universal right it's so common and then
occasionally like one four star review
of something like a movie theater or
something what they're probably on a
door
that day or something it's it's fucking
weird it's weird how many malcontent SAR
out there just bouncing off of things
and just angry at the world
honking their horn and traffic writing
one-star reviews I've actually thought
of starting a project and I had a
research assistant look at it you know
preempted I mean not really exploring it
for me you tell me what you think of
this hypothesis so you have one star up
to five stars let's say on Amazon on
travel Expedia or whatever it's called
hotels restaurants do you think that the
amount of words that people use across
the five stars changes in other words
for example hypothesis might be the more
negative the review the more words are
used because the more yeah and so
probably I hope nobody steals this idea
because that's an idea that I'm hoping
to test soon Oh scientifically right so
if you look yeah yes yeah so you so your
prediction would oh no way statistical
difference between one-star and
five-star reviews on Yelp there we go
make that large place what what year was
this 214 you're way behind bro
okay many businesses in the real world
encourage customers to read on Yelp Yelp
the best way to find local businesses
relies on user reviews to help the
viewers find the best places both
positive and negative reviews are
helpful in this mission positive reviews
and yeah back to what the thing was yeah
no but what I'm yeah I'd sooner
statistical differences in amount of
text just text right it's not part of is
that a part of the review is that what
they're saying put it up yeah I've said
word analyze how many the language
present but Bob and $1,125,000 views
using the data sheet containing reviews
of businesses and Phoenix Hospital Papa
okay when comparing the most frequent
two-word phrases okay but this is just
the content of the so that's also
possible safe Jamie but look at that one
star is hmm so there's certain words
that come up and run star that's not
what
though good great happy in contrast to
one-star yelp reviews use very little
positive language and instead discuss
the amount of minutes presumably much in
this first section is only two word
reviews the next section here is three
word reviews and so he goes on further
yeah yeah go back to where I was reading
there it says very little it so
five-star yelp reviews contain many
instances of good great good that's just
in contrast the one-star yelp reviews
but but here's what's interesting use
very little positive language but
instead discuss the amount of minutes
presumably long and unfortunate waits at
the establishment that's interesting Las
Vegas is one of the cities where the
reviewers were collected which is why
appears prominently so I don't know more
people have to wait yeah that's that
makes sense you're talking about the
amount exactly and words in the review
is exactly and in there at all the size
of the just the size of the review
because this is a statistical analysis
of the the word content you exactly but
anyway let tell you the background of
others so I published a paper in 2014 in
a journal called evolution human
behavior where we looked at a skinny
chance to give you a bit of a background
so remember I talked earlier about the
framing effect if I tell you that a
burger is 10 percent fat versus 90
percent fat free it's the same
description it's just one way you frame
it positively negatively so I took this
idea with one of my former doctoral
students and we applied it to the
context of mating so for example if I
tell you you can go out on a date with
this woman and seven out of ten of her
acquaintances think she's intelligent
this is exactly like telling you that
three out of ten of her friends didn't
think she's intelligent right right so I
could either frame the information
positively or negatively it's the exact
same information and this is called the
framing effect because just how you
frame something causes people to change
their evaluation of the person okay and
so what we wanted to know is whether men
or women are more likely to succumb to
the framing effect within a mating
context do you follow I'm saying yes
well before I not not to put you on the
spot but I guess I will can you predict
which of the two sexes is more likely to
fall prey to the framing manipulation
specifically in the mating context
females very good you never she's like
oh I'm in our heart the men don't mind
well that's not quite friends say she's
a cunt yeah but that's because she's odd
no reason the reason is because
negatively framed information and this
is how I'm gonna tie it to the study
negative information right negatively
framed information looms larger and the
psyche of women specifically in the
mating domain precisely because making a
poor mate choice has greater
consequences evolutionarily speaking for
the woman exactly so this is called the
parental investment theory so we took
parental investment theory and applied
it in this context to a framing decision
and showed that when it comes
specifically to the mating context women
are more likely to succumb to the
framing effect and and the reason again
stems from the fact that there is what's
called a negative negativity bias for
this the same valence information looms
larger when it's negative then it was
faceted precisely because we've evolved
to pay more attention to negative
information rather than positive
information and so that got me thinking
about that hypothesis that I just told
you which is in the consumer context do
I spend more time as a consumer trying
to justify my very negative decision and
therefore that's why I got the word
hypothesis if any bastard steals that
hypothesis I'm gonna know the Godfather
always knows there's more into this is a
very long article that right but it
doesn't top it doesn't do what he says I
believe it does right here okay the
amount of words in the review has a
lesser negative effect review that has
333 words indicates a one-star decrease
but the average amount of words and the
Yelp reviews 130 words so the more words
the the more likely it is to have a
negative one-star review so it's already
there so they aren't they did a
multi-faceted analysis the model
explains 25-point 98% of the variation
the number of stars given in a review
this sounds like a low percentage but
it's
for such a simple model using
unstructured real-world data right this
month this by the way comes from a other
principle which basically says that when
companies are trying to pay attention to
people how satisfied they are one
dissatisfied customer ends up having
much larger influence than one satisfied
customer because if you like the the
mimetic velocity of someone who's pissed
is much greater than certainly and
that's why people were terrified of bad
reviews
and you know they don't really take too
much here's a problem this is a real
problem
fake reviews there's a lot of companies
and employ these really unscrupulous
humans who will write fake reviews for
your business they write positive
reviews and make it look like your
business is amazing and I guarantee you
they use very few words because they try
to bang them out they just have a bunch
of fake bullshit accounts and you can
pay someone and there's their services
that do that
is there any way restaurant is there any
way to algorithmically identify who the
fake review because of the structure of
the words they use or the grammatical
where you know it's somehow fake is I
don't think so because I don't think the
fake reviews are done with a bot I think
it's done with actual human sitting yeah
I mean maybe if you notice it's in
broken English because we're all done in
India or something like that I think a
lot of it is just people finding a
loophole in the system I actually heard
someone discussing it in a restaurant we
were in a restaurant waiting to see and
this guy was telling the owner of the
restaurant you know I have a service
that can that I know of that can help
you and they'll just leave you great
reviews and it's an a you know you have
an amazing restaurant I mean you should
you should use this and it's not like
your line of the people the food's good
like people have all these weird just
but that again speaks to
consequentialism versus the ontological
right sure I mean it if I were to point
to a fault that I have it's probably
other than perfectionism is that my
mother used to always say you need to
realize that the world is not as pure as
the purity bubble that you live in and
so for example for me to lose weight
through liposuction is a form of
cheating because if I don't go through
the actual process of consciously
altering my behavior I don't care about
the end result the fact that you will
say hey you look really nice and thin
now the fact that I did it through quote
an artificial way to me doesn't count do
you think that that's too brutal of a
standard or would you assume know it
know not only is it not too brutal of a
standard it's actually based in logic
because the people that don't alter
their behavior but instead get
liposuction almost always wind up
putting that fat back on because they're
they have to change your behavior right
they have an issue with their patterns
yeah you know the number one pattern if
someone is thinking about losing weight
the number one pattern that I would
always encourage people to do besides
changing their diet to reduce radically
reduce the amount of sugar and bread and
pasta they which will in and of itself
eliminate a lot of weight is
intermittent fasting
meaning have a timed feeding window give
yourself eight hours a day and eat what
you want to eat for eight hours but when
that eight hours is done you don't eat
for sixteen hours and that is that is
law so you just decide what that timed
window is you decide when you're gonna
start eating during the day based on
when you want to eat dinner and when
you're done when you put that fork down
there are sixteen hours between then and
the time you ever stuffed food in your
face again
just doing that you will lose a lot of
weight and it's a healthy way to do it
and it's and it's mimicking or closer
mimic of our evolutionary reality yes
evolutionary reality you did not have
shelves where food was available
everywhere in pantries and frigerators
and superheroes a strong proponent this
is a plug for a friend who's the anti
fragile guy
Nassim Taleb as a who's also lebanese by
the way someone who's into this
intermittent fasting and i think he
swears by it if i'm not mistaken
yes a lot of people do i do i've had
many many nutritionists and people that
study
the science of nutritional absorption
and science of fasting there's a real
science to fasting we Dom D'Agostino has
done some extensive work on the positive
benefits of fasting so as Rhonda Patrick
has discussed this in depth but
intermittent fasting and that timed
feeding window is just it's so critical
if you can just do that I had a friend
of mine his dad just lost 100 pounds
doing that over the last year and a half
yeah he see alters diet you know just
decided he needed to lose weight but the
big one is he just had a timed window
and that timed windows eight hours per
day I organized in it was in April a
mini summit on health promotion from an
evolutionary perspective and so I
invited several physicians who are very
sympathetic to the evolutionary approach
in terms of identifying ways by which we
can promote health whilst recognizing
some of these evolutionary imperatives
maybe I could share one or two sure so
it turns out for example that did you
know who is the when you look at young
men who suffer from erectile dysfunction
do you know what's the one behavior that
these young men because usually of
course erectile dysfunction is something
that is more prevalent as you get older
for you to suffer from this condition as
a young man is anomaly what do you think
is the one behavior they share hmm
it's quite obvious what so a behavior
that's really the tremendous your health
think of the worst one alcohol no lack
of sleep and worse drugs smoking smoking
yeah so heavy smokers are likely to be
the ones who are experience erectile
that's as young people overall vitality
is probably decreased and that's one of
the side effects or their body is
probably like bitch you're so sick you
shouldn't be breathing right as am i
fact there is something she studies
looking at you know how erect your penis
is as a function I say as a metric of
your overall health but anyways and so I
had mentioned this in several lectures
and then it actually came out in a
promotional campaign I don't know if
they watch my lectures this is I think
Health Canada
where they had a advertisement with
simply a cigarette
that's limp that was it that's the whole
now that is exactly what an evolutionary
health promotion approach would be like
and let me explain why the typical
approach with these types of social
marketing campaigns is provide people
with more information and that would
cause them to alter their behavior if
they're behaving in a maladaptive way if
you like it's because they didn't know
any better so tell them the likelihood
of them suffering heart disease when
they're 73 but the reality of course is
that when I'm 21 73 is a long time away
I'm immortal
I'm never going to suffer from these
realities right so I can easily discount
that information but tell me show me
vividly that I might not be able to
perform with my really hot girlfriend
well it doesn't take much of an
evolutionary psychologist to understand
that people will respond to this just to
draw another parallel from the women's
part women turn out to be the ones who
are overwhelmingly most likely to expose
themselves to the Sun whether well
either this the actual natural Sun or
artificial sun beds even though they're
much more knowledgeable than men about
the effects of sun exposure so it's not
because they didn't know any better that
they were doing the behavior because
they know more than men and yet they do
it more so they do it more because of an
aesthetic reason because they think that
they're going to get that health glow
I'm going to be at tonight's party
Tony's going to be there and I need to
look good for Tony so if you simply tell
them that when you're gonna be 74 you
might suffer a greater incidence of
melanoma who cares
on the other hand if you show them
aesthetic ravages to your skin that
increases their attention to your
message so the bottom line is learn what
are the evolutionary triggers that get
people's attention and use that rather
than simply provide them with more
information so that is one applied
reality of this approach what are the
evolutionary triggers that cause people
to smoke in the first place well I don't
think that's necessarily an evolutionary
trigger I think it's just because
tobacco is I mean there's addictive
right and so yeah but what would but
that doesn't explain the initial first
desire
start smoking the first time you smoke
it's disgusting
yeah I saw I'm going to I'm going off
the cuff here so I don't know because I
haven't thought about nothing's that
question it turns out as you probably
know that if you don't start smoking by
the age of 19 I don't know why the
number 19 maybe it's because it's the
end of teenage years you're almost
guaranteed to never smoke right so you
so the tobacco companies really have to
get you when you're a kid I know a guy
who started when he was 40 actually I'm
like Mike I have a cousin who started at
33 so they are anomalies that's so crazy
isn't it so my feeling is it's probably
a form so if I'm going to link it in
some way to an evolutionary mechanism
it's probably just pure conformity right
to the extent that that young kids think
that this cool to smoke they are just
going to imitate others what do you
think I think they want to look cool
they see that character that's smoking
and just takes that big deep drag in
that exhale and they're just looking a
rebel they don't even give a fuck about
their health looking them out they're
just smoking cigarettes I'm probably
wearing leather do you know that I've
never taken a single puff in my entire
life congratulations
have you fuck yeah I mean I'm not about
drugs just smoke yeah yeah now I've I
smoked a cigarette when I was 15 I
didn't like it I quit my sister stuck
with it for a long time we did it
together
I was 15 she was 14 she smoked for a
long time after that so why did usually
the first time I would have to go back
to the time when I was 15 and asked
myself I probably just wanted to try it
I thought it was cool that was an adult
thing we did a lot of adult things that
were gross like we tried liquor and we
would you know there's a lot of things
that we did that you were supposed to do
because it was supposed to be like a
cool person thing right but it's gross
I've done it since then before shows
because I have friends that were smokers
and I had read that there's a nootropic
benefit to nicotine and that one of the
things that Stephen King said when he
wrote his book on writing one of the
more it's a great book by the way on
writing if anybody is interested in
writing but be coming from a real master
a guy who's been incredibly prolific but
his attitude and his philosophy on
writing is pretty unique but one of the
things that he said that he straw
after he quit smoking because of the
synaptic the the the synaptic benefit
the the cognitive benefits of smoking
was really beneficial for his writing it
like really fired up his writing and so
a couple of times back with my friend
Tony Hinchcliffe he quit recently he
quit like about a year or so ago but he
would smoke you know and a couple of
times he would be smoking before a show
I'd say give me one of those things we
try that I have no fear at all that I
would ever be addicted to cigarettes
I was zero fear it's not possible
there's no way in my mind said that I
would ever allow myself to be physically
addicted but using it as a tool right
before I went onstage I found it to give
me like a little bit of a charge I was
like it's kind of interesting not
valuable enough for me to pursue and not
necessarily even better than other
nootropics
or other you know cognitive enhancing
things like coffee or you know for me
the real one is breathing and moving
around I just like to get my blood
pumping and take some big deep breaths
and fire my brain up and get my like
like here we are right here I had a cup
of coffee earlier but the the
stimulation of actual dialogue of
talking to somebody and talking to an
intelligent beautiful person like
yourself aren't you lovely
this is a it's exciting it gets you
fired up and this is it gets all the
cylinders pumping but there is something
to cigarettes
there's definitely something I'm I
founded what is stimulating what is it
that made you feel so confident that you
would not fall prey to its addictive
properties why do you think that I am
confident and I'm not a loser
period I'm not doing anything stupid
with my body I don't I don't I'm not
doing that but you don't think that not
attractive properties could over
overwhelm your willpower really
impossible doesn't exist there's no door
you're not getting in Wow
it's not there's no fucking way I'm
gonna get addicted to cigarettes and
people are giving you pseudo belissa
though to shut up pussy it's not
happening so you could call somebody
pussy but I can't call them the r-word
yes crazy weird it's how it work the
double standard
well pussy's also good that's problem
with pussy the word pussy's ridiculous
as an insult because
one of the most wonderful things the
world has ever seen speaking of pussies
did you see my probably not but I put
out a sad truth clip where I
regrettably apologized to the trans
community because it turns out that I
didn't know that my marriage was
transphobic you know why your marriage
is transformed yes how because some
trans activists have argued that it is
ridiculous for heterosexual men to
strictly want to mate because we're
talking about pussies too strictly want
to mate with women you have sissies when
there are some women who have 9-inch
penises that are just as much of a women
and I argued that now that I've learned
this it's ridiculous that I focus on
only building a life as a heterosexual
man with a woman that has a vagina not
with the woman that has a nine-inch
penis and therefore I apologize for my
transphobia well that doesn't make any
sense because shouldn't it be just like
with the fat thing that you just just
choose whatever and then be happy with
what you got that there's no
discrimination at all you just manage to
fall in love you just got lucky and it's
an actual and it's a lots of vagina male
woman right who has about a vagina
that's not surgically created but had I
been more progressive and open to that
necessarily no did you ever date a trans
person no so there you go
you don't have to date a bunch of people
like that you know like to say that
you've never dated anybody who's over
six foot five well you're tall phobic
that's that's a ridiculous statement
that doesn't make any sense you know to
say that you've you've never dated
anybody that weighs more than 300 pounds
you know you're you're Mass phobic yeah
that's ridiculous the baddest yeah it's
just all of it's stupid it's all stupid
people telling but this what they're
doing is it's a bunch of people that are
pushing this idea of being open entirely
open to all things trans that you as a
heterosexual person should not just
recognize that this is a woman because
they transferred from a male to a female
but recognize even if they haven't
transferred and recognize them in terms
of sexual selection in terms of a date
right and that's just fucking stupid
because you can decide right you're not
into certain things like I'm not really
into girls with short hair
you can decide that it's not my thing I
don't like girls with shaved heads I
don't find it attractive like a woman
can say that too
I don't like guys are creeping mustaches
and nobody gets mad at them right but if
a man says to certain people
I'm not into chicks with dicks then that
guy's a piece of shit or what about
there's a thing called sexual racism
where you specifically you know are not
attracted to a particular you know yes I
don't like Asian men I don't like black
women right you're not supposed to
instantiate those sexual preferences if
the racial cue is the one that's causing
you to either be attracted or not
attract someone what do you think of
that well there's certainly beautiful
people of all races not of sense to me
in terms of the person selection like if
you tell me you've never seen a
beautiful black woman like you're crazy
like you haven't met enough black women
if you tell me seven seen a beautiful
asian woman like what what are you
saying
like there's beautiful people in this
also you should be allowed to to be with
whoever you want in terms of not but why
is it it's always sex right because like
obnoxious people here's a perfect
example
I don't like friends that are loud and
get drunk in public Oh what are you
drunk phobic no I just don't enjoy that
so like in terms of sexual selections
are the dates I tell you why that
analogy might fail okay that's some of
the professor's you could alter your
level of obnoxiousness you could grow
out of your boxers well I know some
people conceivably feel and I know some
people are fucked that's just who they
are fair enough you want to name any
names no yeah but your race is a
immutable part of you okay that's the
perspective yeah I see that I mean I'm
playing devil's advocate I'm not
agreeing with it okay well what about
tall versus short you know what if
you're a woman volleyball player and
you're six four three you don't want to
date a guys five feet tall you know are
you what are you what do you by the way
that is one of the biggest problems of
being a very tall woman because one of
the one of the so there's something
called assorted of mating in
evolutionary theory a sort of mating is
basically birds of a feather flock
together and that's very much the
mechanism that drives mate choice much
more than a
it's a track so one of the sources of
mating cues that people most assort on
is height so it's not so much that women
want guys that are only six foot or
taller it's just that the woman wants a
guy who's taller than her right so if
you look at there is a study that I've
discussed in the past that looked at
something like seven hundred and twenty
actual couples and I think there was
only a single one out of the seven
hundred and twenty where the woman was
taller than the man now once a woman
gets to be over a certain height she's
six four to six four three her potential
pool of prospective suitors really
shrinks and so if you have a daughter
you really want to pray that she doesn't
get too tall because boy or her choice
is going to be limited because few women
want to date a shorter guy than them
yeah when you're at six foot three six
foot four woman that's got to be a tough
spot being you're basically relegated to
big athletes or big giant people the
other place where you get this sort of a
sort of amazing is where you get women
who are super educated that makes sense
the exact same thing happens for the
more educated a woman gets the worse her
marriage prospects because the more
sophisticated women are the more they
insist on a high status male and
therefore as I get more educated as a
woman there are just fewer men who are
as educated or more than me and
therefore I'm doomed to a life of
solitude that totally makes sense that
totally makes sense especially
considering that men you know in general
they get insecure around women who are
more successful yes and more educated or
more intelligent like very rarely are
men comfortable with a woman who has to
explain things to them absolutely Anna
yeah by the way I think so I have
another theory which I'd like to at some
point test maybe someone will steal it
now so when you have a couple that gets
married very young they are judging one
another based on their made value at 18
or 19 right so Tony is the high school
quarterback and so he's the hot guy and
I'm the cheerleader and then later he
stagnates he doesn't go on with this
career whereas I go on and become a
physician I'm the cheerleader so at 29
there is now a huge inequity
between our two mating values on the
mating market right so when we were both
19 the fact that we had roughly the same
mating value made us a very attractive
stable couple but Tony turned out to be
a fucking loser
exactly he's a lame duck exactly and so
I so have a theory that and I'd like to
at some point that's it maybe some
graduate student will write to me saying
I'll work with this on you dr. Saad I
have a theory whereby I think that in
many cases where people end up divorcing
when they married young it's precisely
because that which started as equitable
mating values at time t0 turned out to
have huge divergence and our trajectory
on the mating market and that puts a
huge strain on the marriage especially
when the wife status is going up the
best way to ensure that the marriage
ends is for the status of the woman to
keep going up and that of the man to
either stagnate or go down that's going
to be doomed that makes sense
it may it makes sense that also you know
obviously the young marriages are rough
because people grow and they don't
necessarily grow together all right
you catch people ten years later and
they're oftentimes radically different
people right but then there's also the
thing that women don't seem to for the
most part respect a man who's not doing
as well as them all right that's that's
a giant issue even if the guys doing
okay like say if your guys making
$50,000 a year that's a very good living
he's out there doing well but you make
300 I make 300 grand a year and it's
fucking losers over here what is 50
grand like you're kicking ass you're
like some bigwig it's some big
corporation like that that seems to be a
real sticking point and with men
especially if they have a household
where they contribute in come together
they they pile all the income and the
man start spending the woman's money on
stuff you know he starts buying stuff
you got a new fishing rod what did you
get that with your money or my money you
know it gets weird right and
incidentally so speaking of could say
consumer psychology stuff that I study
when you take a very rich woman and you
go out on a date with her even though
she obviously can afford the dinner and
she can afford anything that you're
going to buy her
if you exhibit cues of frugality
cheapness mm-hmm that's the perfect way
to ensure that you won't have a second
date so it's not so much a question of
you know it's an all sexist ritual
whereby men were wooing women it really
is an honest signal of your commitment
to a woman so the best way and I get
many of these letters where people ask
me hey professor where you you know what
you know dating advice well you do have
to exhibit generosity when you go out
yeah that's I mean nuptial gift-giving
natural gift-giving is sort of a fancy
term for courtship rituals across animal
species so many species you have
typically the male engaging in some form
of courtship gift-giving and depending
on the quality of the gift will
determine whether the female will mate
with you or not well so much of what we
do in marketing context is exactly that
right it's the exact same phenomenon
repeating itself in the human context
right engagement rings right the fact
that you supposed to spend a quarter of
your yearly salary on this rock really
what it is yeah that's what I'm I don't
know if everybody meets it but that's
right it is that right three months is
that god when you say a quarter of the
yearly salary it makes you just go what
in the fuck is wrong with people but
there's so much money but here's the but
here's the reason here's the reason you
ready it's what's called a Zahavi and
signal I don't know if I've ever
discussed this in this podcast AHA vien
signal is basically the idea that for a
signal to be honest it has to be costly
otherwise everybody could imitate it
right so something so think about for
example rites of passage in different
cultures right if you want to
demonstrate that you're a top warrior
the rite of passage has to be brutal
otherwise if it's only we all have to do
five situps then every male could do it
and then the females can't determine the
the pretenders from the real guys right
so so you have for example bullet ant
you know this one you right you put your
hands through right I mean that takes a
lot of courage and explain it to people
don't over target so this is a tribe in
the Amazon whereby you take the bullet
ant is supposedly the the biggest
purveyor of pain
that is humanly possible that you could
experience my friend Steve got stung by
one did he and what did he was in
Bolivia I believe and he got stung and
in his heel got him in the heel and he
said it was just he was delirious he
said it last for a few hours then it
goes away right so what they do in this
tribe is they take a bunch of these
hands in the order of a couple of
hundred one is enough to cause you
agonizing impossible delirious pain and
they sedate them through this compound
and then they interweave them in these
gloves these leaf gloves so that when
they're coming to they come out of their
stupor and you have your hands in there
they start viciously biting you stinging
you and you're supposed to withstand
that pain without screaming you have to
take it and so you sort of almost go
into this religious fervor this kind of
incantation and you have to do that
ritual 20 separate occasions 20
different times down different days 20
20 before you are admitted into the
tribe of warriors whatever well now
let's think it back to the engagement
ring right if all it takes for me to
convince you of my honest intentions is
to buy you flowers and now let's go back
behind the shed and yes have sex well
then a lot of cheaters are going to
convince you of doing this one they
really didn't have good intentions but
if it takes for me to spend a quarter of
my salary to convince you that I have
honest so therefore this is a form of
what's called as a hobby and signaling
because Harvey was a Israeli
ornithologist that studied this type of
behavior this costly signaling behavior
using Arabian babblers which is a type
of bird so here's another example of as
a hobby signal you probably have seen
this when you have a predator that's
looking at who to attack you often will
have gazelles starting to actually make
themselves conspicuously visible to the
predator they come close to him and they
start jumping from have you ever seen
this do you know I mean it's called
strutting not strutting
and can you think why that would be No
why are they not hiding why are they not
making themselves inconspicuous why why
are they drawing attention to themselves
when there are 50 different gazelles
that the predator could be pointing to
why well because what it's what what
that animal is saying is the fact that I
could stand here in front of you and
jump up and down and make myself this
visible suggest that it's probably a
lost cause for you to try to go after me
I'm super fit right it's a costly signal
of my fitness it's an honest signal
right the one who is not doing this
behavior is the one that you should be
paying attention to right so this is
called and so I used this principle of
Zahavi and signaling to explain things
like conspicuous consumption right the
reason why you buy the fancy car that
the other males can't hope to purchase
it's precisely because they can't afford
to match your signal therefore it's an
honest signal the reason why I buy a
hundred million dollar painting that a
monkey could have drawn shows how
wealthy I am that I could waste a
hundred million dollars ah that makes
sense that makes sense
it's all just mating stuff it's mating
and food yeah you don't want to become
somebody's dinner you want to find
dinner and you want to have sex good
night everybody
yeah those signals are so fascinating
when we see them in our culture and
people get angry at them like you see
some guy pull up in a Ferrari and you go
look at this fucking loser with his
little Duke right you like maybe or
maybe guy with a shitload of money wants
to let the world know cuz he likes to
fuck you right I've shared actually on
this show I think the stories about Mike
one of my brothers who was a big car
collector three Ferraris Aston Martin
Lagonda and I've even shared a story
which I'm happy to repeat of we would go
to night clubs where he's just this is
Olympian this is the five foot three guy
who and we would go to night clubs and
he would pick the most beautiful woman
and approach her even though she's
accompanied by six four four
you know tough fucking guy and and he
had that confidence I think because he
had that wealth got a built in him he
certainly helps it certainly helps yeah
it's um it is a weird ever prevalent
aspect in the communication between men
and females is how much money does the
man have right I mean and this is one
thing that a lot of women hate because
they don't want to feel like they could
be purchased and they can't they can't
they can't some can write a lot can it's
a factor it's a big fan and a lot of
women are very just rapidly ruthlessly
independent they don't want that ever in
their life and good for them but but the
reality is it's a very effective
strategy you pull up in that Ferrari or
that Rolls Royce or whatever the fuck
you're driving and it has a big impact
and you get to that nightclub and those
studies have been done endlessly and
there's I called you so here's one
example and you don't need to have a
signal as big as a Ferrari just how you
dress in terms of the status that is
exhibited there's a study that was done
I think in the early 90s where they
manipulated the status via the sartorial
the attire of men and women into one of
three different types you know high
status medium and you know some t-shirt
or McDonald's uniform whatever and then
they asked men and women one of six
possible you know would you go out for a
coffee with this guy would you go out on
dinner would you have sex with him would
you marry him and across all six levels
of relationships the status of the
attire of a man had a profound effect on
the likelihood of the woman saying yes
higher the status the more likely she
said yes that same manipulation on women
had zero effect on men yeah in other
words no man has ever uttered the
following word words my god you've got a
juicy butt and I'd love to have sex with
you but you're not exhibiting cues of
ambition therefore no sex for you Linda
yeah that's that's a reality that's a
reality that people are very
uncomfortable with and I don't think
women necessarily are craving this
same reaction from men because of their
ambition I don't think women are ever
saying through my ambition I'm gonna get
a good man right you know that just it's
not a factor but they do say through my
I ambition I am never going to need a
man true that's because that's just look
the reality is there's a lot of shitty
human beings out there and some of them
have penises right and if you're a woman
and you run into too many of those or
four bye
for whatever reason because of your
environment because of your behavior
because the circles you travel in you're
around too many of them there's a large
dating pool of shitheads out there you
know you just say I don't want this in
my life I don't want to be like my mom I
don't want to be like my sister I want
to be independent but what you're not
saying is I am gonna get a baller house
and a baller car and I'm gonna get me a
man and the only woman that I know of
that I've ever heard say that is
disgusting and the only woman that I
ever she's like you know talking about
her success and our success allows her
to get man she's a foul beast Wow yeah
it's not healthy but incidentally and a
lot of women it's not so much of their
interest I mean resources are good only
to the extent that they allow you to
ascend the social hierarchy right this
doesn't explain why some women are
attracted to the starving artists right
because what why are so many women
romanticizing over the guy with the
guitar but that's because they are
choosing him based on his future
trajectory right I am banking right I am
banking on the fact that you exhibit
enough talent that I suspect that by
investing in you by choosing you it's
gonna take me to that trajectory no
woman has ever uttered the following
words you have no talent you exhibit no
ambition you're never going to step out
of the basement let's have sex right so
so it's not that women are only
interested in money they're interested
in a panoply of cues all of which relate
to the potential of ascending the social
hierarchy yeah that makes sense you know
it makes sense that these things are
biologically inter woven into our psyche
no kidding makes sense I mean just it's
unavoidable well that's that's why I'm
always and I think the first time that I
came on the show we discussed this
I'm always amazed that so many people
have such antipathy towards evolutionary
psychology because there is really no
other game in town I mean it what else
could explain the evolution of the most
important organ that defines our person
had called the human mind right I mean
you're comfortable accepting that the
liver and the kidneys and the heart has
involved revolution but you can't accept
that your mind and your brain has
evolved through evolution so it's really
it's an insane form insane form of
science denialism that I've spent 25
years fighting and I'm not sure if I'm
any closer to winning the battle it's
the only form of science denialism
that's closely acceptable it's
culturally acceptable because it it
defines people in a way that makes them
feel like animals or makes them feel
cheap or makes them feel like they're
prostitutes you know it makes it makes
people feel like they're prostitutes and
interestingly it comes a lot more for
this particular form of science
denialism from the left this is why a
lot of a lot of people will write to me
and say well why do you seem to be
critiquing a lot more people on the left
and the right that's not that's not
showing my political colors it's simply
because the ecosystem that I navigate in
which is called academia it just so
happens that most of the BS comes from
the left because the academia is laden
with leftists yeah so it's not so much
that I give a free pass to the right
when you have a right-wing senator who
denies evolution I'm the first to also
critique him but the reality is when it
comes to human nature it's really the
leftists who are denying the biological
basis of our human nature why do you
think that this science denialism is so
prevalent on the list on the left when
it comes to gender because gender seems
to be the battleground it seems to be
the battleground even in terms of
transgender right but the the
battleground of gender whether it's the
gender pay gap or whether it's
traditional gender roles this seems to
be where science denialism lives on the
left in the more you know like what I
always grew up thinking about the left
the left was always more open-minded
they were supposed to be the more
educated and they were supposed to be
the more compassionate people
so something happened and I don't know
when it happened but somewhere along the
line this science denialism and in this
for whatever reason this idea that if it
shows any differences if there's any
statistics or any data that shows
differences between the men and the
women that this is somehow this is
somehow an example of sexism or
patriarchal tyranny or there's a reason
for this that's negative so I think the
reason is actually quite quite simple at
the right-wing folks who deny science
it's typically for religious ideological
reasons or for industry right so there
is some pet ideology that is threatening
me and therefore I'm going to deny
science right this exact same thing is
happening with the left they also have
been parasitized by a quasi religion
it's called progressivism okay and I say
progressivism in quotes right you know
equality of outcomes and all the rest of
the garbage right and therefore to the
extent that evolutionary theory in
general but evolutionary psychology in
particular is a threat to my quasi
religion then I will reject it this is
why evolution deniers tend to be on the
right and evolution psychology deniers
tend to be on the left they've both been
parasitized by religions they're just
different religions but so that's a fast
any way to look at it that progressivism
is in fact some sort of religion and it
makes sense if you're looking at the
science and nihilism aspect of it
because you're not looking at it in
terms of an objective analysis of all
the facts and the data that's in front
of you you're saying what fits this
construct what fits this pattern of
behavior that I've chosen to adopt and
then I have to show all the people that
are around me except like you accuse
Sean Carroll of doing it was not
adopting this instead of looking at the
actual facts of this case exactly
post-modernism I think did you have you
had the grievance studies photo shoot
right fantastic I mean Peter Bogosian
yeah I mean James lensing could you
could you believe that this is stuff
that is repeatedly wonderful right the
podcast if you haven't heard it folks
please listen to it
these guys and a gal with the woman from
Helen Blanc Rose James Lindsay and Pete
Bogosian yeah Pete Bogosian and James
Lindsay with the one were here the woman
Helen lives in England yes
and they came on the podcast and they
talked about all these different false
studies and false papers that they
published that were peer-reviewed and
published in academic journals that like
things like what was the one
heteronormative in dog parks so so that
the humping and but I thought you quick
funny story phobia and dog barks I die
so I'll say this some a few folks knew
about this project before it came out
one of them has a name that sounds like
glad slant
oh is this glad father this is the glad
father now it turns out that I didn't
know though which which particular
studies they were sending out I knew
about the general project but I didn't
know the details and so I wanted this
project go on for I think it was maybe
18 months if I'm not mistaken something
in that order well at at one point I was
flipping through something whatever and
I saw the the dog grape culture stuff so
eye contact feet I go I just there was
no even salutation there wasn't hi how
are you
I go dog park rape you like within a few
seconds he's just cracking up laughing
that's the background to some of these
stories he was up for some sort of
disciplinary review right after he left
the podcast with me I don't know how
that went or what a lot of people are
gunning for him yeah I know he was is
explaining that but I think what he's
doing is very valuable and I think that
it needs to be known and especially in
terms of like people listening to this
they're gonna send their kids these
fucking schools and spend fifty thousand
dollars a year well this is it this is
why by the way people often times people
write to me even even my wife will
sometimes tell me why do you care so
much about this is it because imagine
all of these people they're spending
their parents hard earned money they
could have been studying tons of really
interesting true things and I don't mean
true it has to be signed
you could study art and you could study
literature you could study philosophy so
I'm not I'm not creating a hierarchy of
knowledge it's all good but as long as
you are committed to reason to logic and
so on these fields are what I call
intellectual terrorism they're nihilist
and it pisses me off as a professor that
they've been allowed to promulgate for
4050 years
untouched yeah and so those who argue
that these guys were frauds because they
you know they they submitted these
papers under a pseudonym well what did
you expect them to do I mean if if
you're a whistleblower
do you not submit your complaint or
using the name Jane Doe yeah so the fact
that they use the pseudonym that's
hardly fraudulent if you're going to
demonstrate how fraudulent that whole
enterprise is so what if you use the
false name on what do you don't you
agree
Oh a hundred percent yeah it's it's
important it's important to expose this
idiocy because it's it's so prevalent
and it's so ridiculous and there's a
bunch of fake intellectuals out there
that are repeating all this nonsense and
so when they see this in what should be
almost like onion level satire obvious
exactly and they don't think so and they
reward it and they talk about it's one
of the best papers they've read this
year exactly I mean these people are
preposterous and this is just one of
those things where you let people get
away with things and then they keep
pushing it they keep pushing it it goes
further they keep getting further with
it and eventually they just get away
they're too far gone you can't bring
them back I actually told Pete and I
hope I don't think he'll mind that I'm
sharing this but when when he was
telling me about the project one of the
things that I try to temper or his
expectations of how much of a fatal blow
the project would be he I had the
feeling that he was thinking that if we
are successful it's the end of the
bullshit the the bullshit edifice is and
I kept saying look I think it's really
important what you're doing and of
course I support it in any way that I
can help and advise you and so on I'm
I'm there for you
but I don't think you should think that
it's going to end and I think I've been
proven to be right no you're 100% right
because I think post-modernism by its
very definition is almost like a snake
that can't be
right who are you to judge what is
bullshit exactly I mean what percentage
of an impact do you think it had do you
think it killed one percent of the
bullshit maybe a bit more maybe two I
can't put a number but I should say five
let's be generous alright let's go with
five by the way I've spoken to you know
Alan SoCal the original hope do you know
the the history of this type of hoaxing
No so the original hoax was done by Alan
SoCal Sok al who is a physicist who in
1996 submitted a paper he's oh he's a
physicist so he's you know hardcore
scientists and he wanted he was so
pissed off at all these post modernist
that he submitted a paper on the
hermeneutics of gravity all this kind of
BS and they of course lapped it up
because here is a physicist who's now
joining the pantheon of our bullshit
therefore let's accept it and then of
course at that point he said oh oh I
have something to admit to you guys now
him and I had communicated at one point
I had written an article about his Hoch
and he he corrected me was very very
cute because I I said you know this guy
created some pseudo random bullshit and
he said well you know professor sad I
actually spent quite a bit of effort
coming up with all these words so it
wasn't random PS it was very well
thought out BS so this is a guy that you
might want to have on I don't know if he
doesn't read these pockets but he's the
he's the the Godfather of hoaxing this
stuff it's just gotta be so frustrating
to be in academia and to see all this
around you and see all these false
thinkers these these fake people
absolutely putting this con game in the
middle of a real learning institution
and not only that but this being
celebrated by other true academics
because they don't want to get called
out as being racist or homophobic or
transphobic or whatever the fuck it is
these morons are celebrating right this
this is a weird trickery it to me it's
almost like being a comedian and being
around joke thieves right it's like
almost the same thing like I know you're
not the same thing as me you're a faker
you're faking this thing we're in this
artist colony everybody else
struggling to come up with material and
you're just stealing it right and this
is what is going on with these gender
studies people that you're pretending
you're an intellectual so this is
craziness
well you're you're ignoring the science
so I have a theory so the original post
modernists were all French post
modernists I don't feel their name but
for your viewers
it's Michel Foucault Jacques Lacan and
Jacques Derrida the three grand
bullshitters okay and so I have a fear
is this is 70s this is it started about
the 60s and 70s really went into full
throttle right now I I'm gonna link this
back to mating remember we said
everything okay now I genuinely think
that in the deep recesses of their minds
these three fraudsters did not believe a
single thing and what they were doing
but they quickly learned that if they
stood in front of a crowd authored some
folk profundity gibberish and you had
all the hot beautiful young ladies
sitting and looking at you as if you
were deep poet they quickly learned that
there's evolutionary rewards that come
with their folk profundity and so the
train was off and they weren't going to
yes I went off the station and yeah
that's it the trajectory said I truly
believe that if we could ever find some
you know diary or something of these
around there they probably have written
my god that I get a lot of women I guess
Michel Foucault was gay maybe a lot of
young men through my trickery in other
words I you think they admitted that
openly no I don't even in a diary I
doubt they admitted it to themselves
that openly but so do you think that in
the deep recesses of their mind when
they went to bed do you think that
they've convinced themselves that they
are saying something profound or they
know it I know they're locked into I
think this is what I think when most
people are engaging in that sort of
deceptive behavior they're locked into a
pattern that they know is effective that
pattern has some sort of an effect a
beneficial effect on them whether it's
sexually whether it's in terms of the
social dynamics that they exist in
there's this pattern they've found this
pattern that they can pursue that's what
I believe so therefore they are being
self deceptive yeah to the point where
they believe they're bullshit well maybe
maybe not even being self deceptive but
certainly not being self analytic
they've they've hit this hot spot where
they you know they lock in and then they
they just follow what's effective and
what's working yeah perhaps you're right
that's what I think's do you think
though that eventually all of these guys
will die out no so you think the BS will
just find a new way to metamorphosize
into some new instantiation but it's
always there's always going to be a
critical mass of BS in the university I
think there's always going to be a bunch
of people that want to believe in things
that are not true because that makes
them seem better than what they really
are there's a bun there's always going
to be a bunch of people that want to
avoid the reality of essentially the
lives unfair a ladder system of
competition there's there's just it's
just unfair it's just a lot of it it's
just like it's the natural the natural
world nature itself is unfair just in
general you know that the the salmon
never gets to eat the eagle it's just
it's not fair and I think there's a lot
of people that find these inequalities
and find this unfairness very
disconcerting it disturbs them to no end
and they set out on a quest to try to
morph the world into some weird utopian
fantasy land where everything has an
equal outcome it doesn't exist but in
people that are fucked you know you get
people that look like Lena Dunham and
they want to like sort of like balance
out the playing field it's like it's not
fair right it's like how come scarlet
johansson is a woman and how come Lena
Dunham is a woman like what the fuck
like that's not fair right it's not it's
there's a lot of things that aren't fair
intellectually I know the way people's
minds function they're not this there's
people that are Elon Musk and then
there's other folks right we're just not
that bright all right this is just the
way the world so do you think as as
fighters for reason our objective is to
simply make sure that the number of
bullshitters stays below certain
thresholds since we can't eradicate them
fully according to your view at least
what we could do is sort of study the
tides so that they're always below a
certain number in other words 10% of
people are going to be bullshitters in
the university and as long as they don't
get passed out
we're doing a good job whereas I'd like
to be more optimistic I'd like to
eradicate all of the bullshitters I
don't think that's possible but I think
that bullshit as a whole is very
attractive to people and it's very
attractive to people to pursue it's very
attractive to people to engage in they
don't like reality and they didn't want
to change things like there's a lot of
bullshit that just exists in our culture
and has forever why the fucker
chiropractors still around why are
psychics still around like there's a lot
of nonsense out there and then when you
look into what those what what real
evidence there is that psychics are real
it's almost zero when I could link it by
the way to marketing so the Dove the
Dove company mm-hmm they're probably
their most successful campaign of all
time has been one where they argued that
beauty is a social construct you're all
beautiful in your own way
now that again is a beautiful message
right because if I am someone if I'm a
woman who doesn't score well on the
typical evolutionary ques then what do I
want to hear I want to hear that there
is no such thing as evolutionary ques
it's all socially constructed right if I
have sagging breasts if I have poor skin
and so on if I have wrinkly skin I'd
like to believe that there is no such
thing as an Universal Beauty standard
yes and in that sense dove has been
incredibly successful because by
peddling false hope they've actually
been able to tap into women's
insecurities and incense that's good
marketing did you see the cover of
Cosmopolitan magazine that was widely
criticized because they had a morbidly
obese woman on who was a you know a
bikini plus-size model yeah yeah and
they were challenging beauty norms like
this is a person that's eating
themselves to death you fucking assholes
and so your lack of discipline and your
desire to shame people who exercise
that's what you're doing right to make
them feel bad because you feel bad you
can't put the fucking cook cookies and
cupcakes down as a led you to try to
push this ridiculous standard and one of
the things my point of view was could
you imagine if the cover of men's health
had an enormous fat guy with his gut
hanging over his belt and
and people were saying the new standards
of attractiveness for men have been
changed by Mike who just drinks beer and
eats cake if you like get the fuck out
of here that's never gonna fly it's not
gonna fly with men but it does fly with
women and by the way they the fat
acceptance movement doesn't just argue
that you know not being 500 pounds is
unattractive because of the patriarchy
they actually argue that the medical
evidence suggesting that there's a link
between obesity and downstream bad
effects is all bullshit they're not done
not just that they there they also point
to one incredibly flawed study that has
been widely disproven that says that
there's some sort of vigor or vitality
involved in being overweight because
they get sick less there's no no truth
to that whatsoever
they only they only analyze people who
were healthy at the time like it's it's
theirs you can go in google the study
and find out the this criticism of that
study but it's a hundred percent
horseshit folks being fats not good for
you it's really bad for you when you're
as big as that woman on the cover of
Cosmopolitan magazine she's literally
morbidly obese she's fucking dying she's
addicted to food in a horrible way and
to promote that and pretend that somehow
or another this is okay and it's we're
gonna we're gonna show new standards of
beauty you go you giant gelatinous bag
of meat and tissue no that's a dying
person who's addicted to food she
doesn't want to look like that I feel as
though given that on one of the shows
she spent about 45 minutes fat shaming
me did change me that they talked to you
about your diet there hasn't been a
recognition of your slimness much-much
Slim you are slim I felt a bit of drool
coming when I first came in there was a
bit of drool on the side of your thing
when you saw me there's no drool I'm
happy for you thank you there's no drill
how much wave you lost about 30 that's
nice another very good and I have to
register as a dangerous weapon Wow
Thor any more yeah you're on the door
what are you doing different great
question being accountable to the scale
being accountable to how many things go
in my mouth so meaning every Friday no
matter what I get on the scale
you see what I'm saying yeah so I've put
on three pounds
therefore I intercept that trajectory at
three pounds rather than in four years
when I get on the scale I'm all 32
pounds overweight so number one being
you know privy to that information
secondly my wife whom you've met many
times enters all my stuff and My Fitness
Pal calm so at the end of the day at the
end of the day she tells me you've eaten
seventeen hundred and ninety two
calories and you've exercised four
hundred calories you had 1300 calories
good now you might say that's not
sustainable to be so sort of nazi-like
in terms of your accountability for your
whole life but for me that really works
because I'm very you know objective
oriented if I let it slide then I can
wake up one day and I'm thirty pounds
overweight
I don't think I fetchin you don't know
think about I was trying to show you
anything about your back and you
couldn't get on my machine that's what
it well I don't think we even talked
about your weight did with it we spent
about 40 minutes forty met you as a
matter of fact I remembered that I know
that you don't read your comments I had
gone to check some of the comments and
some people were quite upset at you fat
people for no for you just they were fat
oh maybe get off your ass you fat fucks
lazy bitch I knew it was coming from
that was coming from concern and love so
I didn't take it violet have you looked
at what Jordan Peterson is doing a lot
of the meat stuff right yeah the
carnivore diet so very fascinating he's
lost 50 pounds oh he looks amazing he
said he's at his intellectual peak you
seize over running with energy she
doesn't take any supplements doesn't
take anything just eats meat Wow to
sounding do you is there I know that is
that sort of the keto thing right is it
no it's not it's different because of
Google Genesis when you have keto is
more fat than anything it's more fat
even than protein
he's eating mostly protein and fat but
much more protein that you would get an
Akita genic diet
I see so he's not necessarily in a state
of ketosis I mean be probably as some of
the time when your body has a large
quantity of protein your body converts
that protein into glucose into glucose
Ennis's it's a very interesting process
but it's one of the reasons why if you
eat too much protein
knocks you out of ketosis because your
body changes it turns it into glucose
what he's doing is essentially an
elimination diet he's only eating meat
and when I've talked to like actual real
nutrition experts who really understand
the process they do not recommend what
he's doing it's great but I think maybe
that's because it hasn't been done and
studied on a wide scale before there
have been a few anecdotal reports about
people who have eaten just meat for you
know 20 years and they're real healthy
it seems to really be effective with
people that have autoimmune issues
people that have psoriasis people that
have various autoimmune conditions it
seems that cutting out all inflammation
causing foods meaning dairy sugar all
the pasta and bread all those things
seem to have a profound effect on
certain people
his daughter is one of them he's one of
them and I know some other people as
well I know some really smart people
that have gotten into that and they've
experienced profound changes in their
body composition they've lost a
tremendous amount of weight even people
that are eating a large amount of meat
it's not something that's attractive to
me first of all I think fibers important
phytonutrients our report and there's a
lot of stuff you get from vegetables and
also I don't have a negative reaction to
vegetables doesn't seem to be affecting
me but some people I think it's entirely
possible do right and I think if you do
have some really profound autoimmune
issues particularly it seems to be
effective with certain types of
arthritis it's not the worst thing to
give a shot I would definitely recommend
that if you did do something like that
that you would supplement and I don't
think Jordans doing that at all I don't
think there's any harm whatsoever in
supplementing with multivitamins getting
your essential nutrients essential fatty
acids from fish oil the vitamin
b-complex D complex make sure you've got
all your bases covered nutritionally and
then if your body just responds really
well to only eating meat like Jordan
looks fantastic every time I talk to me
looks better I would be curious to know
though what some of his metrics are the
LDL HGS
well here's the thing about that you
know that is very poorly understood and
almost always misinterpreted the LDL HDL
correspondence and what it means in
terms of like whether or not you're
healthy arterial plaque is important and
then there's there's all sorts of
markers that can show inflammation
inflammation in your body what your
blood pressure is how some people react
much differently to the various foods
right we obviously know that some people
urge to certain nuts sure this this
thing the people very biologically so
much that one of the things it needs to
do nutrition experts have said are
saying that if you just have your body
consume just one thing in this
elimination diet it eliminates so many
different processes that your body has
to engage in in order to break down all
the other different things and in it
eliminates all the different reactions
that you get from all these various
foods your body is only concentrating on
one food all the time and it seems to
alleviate a lot of these conditions
there's also the fact that when you're
eating just meat you're not going to be
as hungry you're not going to you're not
going to overeat as much it's it's much
less likely that you overeat with
protein yes and it is that you overeat
with pasta breads and sugars and things
along those lines in terms of caloric
intake just you heat you reach your
satiety point very quickly yes and that
is probably a factor as well because
Jordan has lost a tremendous amount of
weight and I think in losing that weight
his body's less inflamed he has less fat
that's inhibiting his motion and you
know his arteries and his body is his is
his limbs aren't as fat its faces on his
fat he's not snoring anymore which
indicates that he was he probably had
some fatness face and it was kind of
blocking and and constricting his
breathing it's all really interesting
there's a gentleman I not sure if I'm
gonna get his name right he's a
nutritional psychiatrist at the Columbia
University I just discovered him
recently while working out on the
elliptical through the big Fink series
and he's got a couple of short clips
where he talks about how
incorporates nutrition within his
psychiatric practice I think his name is
Drew Ramsay he seems like a guy that
would be unplugging so many people
you're probably a few too many buddy I'm
such a booking agent right no but I mean
he seems like a really interesting guy
and shows you here's a psychiatrist who
thinks ultimately that a lot of our you
know mood related issues relate to what
we put in our bodies well there's no
question that inflammation has a direct
result or a direct action on how you
think and feel
inflammation makes people irritate it
makes people with our Jick does a lot of
terrible things to just your body in
general which affects your brain which
is a part of your body you know the idea
that there's somehow or another or not
interchangeable is pretty preposterous
and people that don't take care of their
body but want their brain to be healthy
that is like you want your cake and you
want to eat it too it's like you don't
you don't make any sense you start
looking at it holistic so someone who is
as passionate as you are about these
issues if someone in your family whether
it be your wife or your children we're
not doing the right choices does that
cause you to be that much more irate
because they're sort of within the
purview of your influence or rebelling I
would think that maybe I'm being an
overbearing asshole I would look at it
internally first and then I would look
at them and try to figure out like what
what is what is what's wrong here is
this a simply a dietary thing or is it a
psychological thing it would become a
big project for sure I mean when there's
a loved one that's it's essentially
eating themselves into poor health which
is really common I mean it's more common
than it's not in fact I think the most
recent estimate googled this if you will
young Jamie I think the most recent
estimate is it the United States is
above 50% obesity rate right it's
incredible which is stunning I actually
when I was at the Canadian Senate
hearings I actually argued that if we
wish to get rid of bigotry then we get a
lot more bang for our buck if we went
after fat bigotry rather than
transgender bigotry because there are so
few people who are transgendered and
even though we should condemn any
bigotry they face they make
a very small portion that and I was
being facetious right but I was
basically arguing that look if you
really want to have these bills to try
to stamp out bigotry you should be going
after fatphobia because most Canadians
are also obese now they didn't get I
said it's a sizeable problem and even
better
obesity United States here goes
2018 course we have your risk factors
adult obesity rates now exceed 35% in
seven states yeah but what about
children as well I think they were
talking about overall I think overall I
think children are more fat now than
they've ever been ever well I had you
might I mentioned earlier that I had
read all that let's get the actual
numbers again so chill adult obesity
exceeds 35% 30% in 29 States 25% in 48
states West Virginia as the highest
adult obesity rate 38% Colorado lowest
at 22 shout out to Colorado adult
obesity rate increased in Iowa
Massachusetts Oklahoma Rhode Island
South Carolina what is it by four
not just adult obesity but overall
obesity what is the obesity rate in
America 160 million people there it is
160 million people in America are either
obese or overweight nearly
three-quarters of American men and more
than 60% of women more than 60% of women
are overweight 30% of boys and girls
under the age of 20 are obese or
overweight so remember I was mentioning
earlier talk I was mentioning the Health
Summit that I held at my university
mm-hmm one of the guys his name is
Robert Lustig he's a pediatric
endocrinologist he was our he was saying
that many instances of diabetes and
other really high blood pressure that
you would never ever see in young
children is now very very common very
common 2530 years ago he would never
have a single patient who was under
certain age and now it's every everyday
basically it's a stunning statistic it's
it's disgusting it's sad to see and it's
it's a you know people are a prisoner of
their diet and that's that's it
most of it and you know exercise plays a
factor for sure it speeds up your
metabolism but the bottom line is you
got to stop eating shit you got to stop
eating so much but it's so satisfying to
people especially people that feel this
feel like unsatisfied and unfulfilled
and unhappy and they're medicating
themselves with food because they get
this little charge every time they stuff
a cake down their mouth or they eat a
sandwich or they eat a giant bowl of
unhealthy stuff I feel like you're gonna
break out into being Kevin Spacey in the
movie se7en where he goes out killing
people who knows lava governing the way
you're speaking with such disdain
because it's not it's not necessary
crying this is a disease that you're
giving yourself right this is what's sad
this is like and I understand if you
don't have an education on this and some
people don't but that's not the case
with most people most people understand
that what they're eating is bad for them
they do it anyway well which shows you
that it's not only about you you don't
do bad things simply because you didn't
know anybody right yeah sure example
psychology is very encyc ology is so
unbelievably complicated and that's why
I love my life that's why I love my
profession every day I wake up and I'm
in a playground what's the next problem
that I'm going to tackle and have fun
studying that's why I love my life and I
hope everybody I often get people who
write to me and say what's the secret
why are you always smiling I'm always
smiling well number one I'm healthy I
have a great family but I wake up every
day excited about the prospects for the
day if you could find that half the
bottles one well your your position your
life your your your study is so it's so
rich with information and it's so
illuminating in terms of like why
certain things occur in our culture why
people do certain things like what's the
motivation and and and your perspective
on it like knowing all these motivations
and knowing what's causing all these
different actions and reactions and it's
got to be just constantly interesting
because it is so much and I get to meet
guys like you
and hang out with guys like you well is
your a great thing about my jobs I get
to meet guys like you and learn all this
Chris shit thank you buddy
listen tell everybody about your show
it's on YouTube the sad truth Sacher
with sa AD truth you could follow me on
twitter at GA d sa ad and also I've got
a public Facebook page write me emails
say hello oh it's good to see you my
brother and next time I see you're gonna
be a fuckin lethal weapon indeed 30
pounds less weight
bye everybody see you soon
[Music]